CEHS 10 - Leadership, problem solving, communication and teamwork. Use creativity by doing a service learning project and explore career possibilities.
ENGR 10 - Overview of the engineering field as well as major specific information. Information will be provided to help with transitional needs to UNL and the College of Engineering (time management, study skills, and resources), involvement opportunities (student organizations, research, and study abroad), learning about engineering, and interactive learning to increase non-technical complete engineer competencies. Open only to first-year students considering or admitted to the College of Engineering.
CSCE 10 - Required pass/no pass course designed to help incoming first-year CSE students in their transition into the University of Nebraska-Lincoln and the Computer Science and Engineering department. The course introduces various departmental resources and policies, explore possible career paths, fields, and opportunities available to a computer scientist or computer engineer. Assignments may include attending department orientations and lectures, a student organization meeting, and on-campus activities including Career Fair, E-Week, and Research Fair.
JOMC 20 - Focus on resume, cover letter preparation, interviewing skills, and strategies for internship and job searches.
ENGR 20 - Overview of career opportunities in engineering and construction management. Emphasizes internships, cooperative education and career placement.
GRPH 22 - Assessment of student performance at both the project and portfolio level.
GRPH 23 - Assessment of performance at both the project and portfolio level.
CFPA 30 - Online orientation to the tools and resources necessary to succeed as an undergraduate major in the Hixson-Lied College of Fine and Performing Arts and University of Nebraska-Lincoln.
ASCI 42 - Cooperative education in an established or organized international or professional development experience program in Animal Science.
AGRI 42 - Cooperative education in an established or organized international or professional development experience program in any College of Agricultural Science and Natural Resources curriculum.  <a href="/search/?P=AGRI%2042" title="AGRI&#160;42" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'AGRI 42');">AGRI&#160;42</a> requires permission from the College of Agricultural Sciences and Natural Resources (CASNR) Dean's Office and the department chair of the student's degree program.
MUEN 44Y - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
BSAD 50 - A basic-skills computer course designed to ensure that students will be able to demonstrate a minimum degree of computer proficiency using basic business software packages that are required to earn a degree from the College of Business (CoB) or for a non-CoB major enrolled in a CoB course.
UGEP 50 - An introduction to success as a new Explore Center student, including use of the University learning management system and resources for academic and personal adjustment to the University in the first year as it pertains to concepts of purpose, ownership, wellbeing, engagement, and relationships.
CASC 50 - An introduction to success as a new College of Arts and Sciences student, including use of the University learning management system, basic degree requirements, and campus resources for academic and personal adjustment to the University in the first year.
MUSC 64 - Demonstration of knowledge in music theory and history through completion of the Major Field Test in Music.
MUSR 68 - Appearances by guest artists and lecturers. Opportunity for multiple student performances. Forum to consider administrative matters in the School of Music.
MUSR 69 - Appearances by guest artists and lecturers. Forum to consider administrative matters in the School of Music.
BSAD 76 - Tracks completion of the internship or experiential (practicum) requirement for Clifton Builders management majors and minors
BSAD 78 - An orientation course designed to support new students in a making a successful transition to UNL.
MUSR 90 - Public solo music recital.
MUSC 94 - Supervised practicum and/or field work in an area related to music under the direction of a university staff/faculty member and a cooperating professional in the particular area(s) of interest.
ACTS 95 - Course tracks completion of internship or professional development requirement for undergraduate Actuarial Science majors and graduate students in the Actuarial Science masters program.
BIOC 95 - Provides an opportunity for a practical experience and career exploration/development in a selected business, industry, agency or educational institution.  Activities must include a significant biochemistry, computational/systems biology, or biochemistry career related focus.
CASC 95 - An opportunity for Arts and Sciences students to plan, document, and transcript an approved internship experience.
MATH 97 - An introduction to teaching and to providing instructional support in undergraduate mathematics classrooms.  Interaction with research in mathematics education and applications of research to the classroom setting. Discussion of articles about foundations of teaching and learning, with emphases on active learning and constructivism, managing group activities, using applications-based problems, understanding where students struggle, and empathy in teaching.
EDPS 97 - This is an eight week seminar course for first semester students in the General Studies Learning Community. Students will complete activities to identify interests, research majors that match their interests and complete a &quot;Guided Professional Shadowing&quot; experience to gain first-hand knowledge about a career of their choice.  <a href="/search/?P=EDPS%2097" title="EDPS&#160;97" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'EDPS 97');">EDPS&#160;97</a> is Pass/No Pass only.
FINA 97 - Ethical standards for investment professionals.
PSYC 97 - Development as an undergraduate learning assistant in Psychology courses.
BIOC 98 - An introduction to laboratory or field methods in preparation for independent research.
BSAD 98 - Graduating seniors are informed of appropriate career-related announcements, activities, and responsibilities. Assessment activities are conducted through class and include such exams as the Educational Testing Service Major Field Exam, the College of Business Student Survey, the Employment (post-graduation plans) Survey, and other assessment related activities.
JOMC 98 - All seniors must complete an exit interview to remain eligible for graduation.  Appropriate career-related announcements, activities, and responsibilities
CASC 98 - An opportunity to plan, document, and reflect on a research experience.
BIOS 99 - Completion of a standardized cumulative examination, an exit interview and other assessment activities.
MUSC 99 - Required for doctoral students during each semester of residence, the colloquium is a regularly scheduled meeting of faculty and doctoral students for the purpose of sharing ideas and the results of scholarly research.
CSCE 99 - Required pass/no pass course designed to introduce graduate students to cutting-edge research in computing-related areas and promote professional development.
EMAR 99 - A weekly forum for emerging media arts majors to interact with guest artists, participate in lectures and engage with a broad range of emerging media-related topics.
MUSC 99A - Provides guidance on topics pertinent to Ph.D. Vocal Pedagogy students' development and research agendas.
AECN 100 - Academic success and development of leadership skills through involvement and activities on campus. Time management and study skills. Identify potential internship and career opportunities.
PSYC 100 - Survey of careers frequently sought by psychology majors, and recommendations for course work and experience for attaining students' career goals. Includes departmental, college, and university resources of value to students' educational and career objectives, and preparation for graduate study in psychology and related fields.
JOMC 100 - Assists new students in making a successful transition to the University of Nebraska, specifically the College of Journalism and Mass Communications, both academically and personally.  Fosters a sense of belonging, promotes engagement in the curricular and co-curricular life of the University, encourages self responsibility, and articulates the benefits of a higher education and the expectations and values of the University. Helps students develop and apply essential study skills, communication skills and explore interests, abilities and values.
NUTR 100 - Various risk factors and personal behaviors that affect health.  Practical methods for self-assessments and improving and maintaining physically active and healthy eating habits designed to enhance awareness of short- and long-term risks and to achieve a higher level of wellness.
ENGR 100 - Establishes a foundation in communication and leadership skills that is needed for engineering students to be successful in their academic endeavors and future career opportunities.  Introduction to the principles and practices of positive interpersonal relationships for leadership development.  Self-awareness, awareness of others, effective interpersonal communication, and the building of trust relationships as a basis for understanding and developing leadership.
ETHN 100 - Introduction to the interdisciplinary study of Indigenous peoples, African Americans, Asian Americans, Latinx peoples, and other racial and ethnic groups in the United States.
GEOL 100 - Background in physical geology for non-majors. Topics include rocks and minerals, surficial processes, plate tectonics, and applied geology.
CSCE 100 - Introduction to the use of data-centric and information technologies-and issues and challenges-in today's applications in sciences, engineering, the humanities, and the arts.  Exposure to computational thinking and programming, statistical thinking and research design, data analysis and database techniques, and visualization and creative thinking.
FILM 100 - Introduction to the analysis of images and sound in film.
NAVS 100 - Naval Orientation requires one and one-half hours participation per week. Continuing program offering an introduction to the various aspects of Navy life. Conducted each semester in the NROTC program.
BIOS 100 - An orientation to the Biological Sciences Major. Introduction to advising and university services, study skills, professionalism, community building, and career development.
PLAS 100 - Introduction to a diverse range of plant and landscape systems and management strategies for balancing economic and environmental sustainability. Foundational principles of plant biology, landscape ecology, and environmental science explored within the context of these systems.
POLS 100 - Introduction to American government and politics.
UGEP 100 - Exploring individual passion areas and their relation to the purpose for attending college. Active integration of on- and off-campus experiences to help fully realize individual potential and deepen appreciation of other classroom and co-curricular experiences. Development of skills in leadership, communication skills, and recognition of other's experiences.
SOCW 100 - Designed for the student who wants to learn about social welfare and to explore a possible major in social work. Examines historical and current issues in social welfare, social services, and the social work profession. Focuses on values, beliefs, and goals of social services and social work, and provides an historical perspective for present activities.
ODED 100A - Introduction to to canoeing and canoe camping with an emphasis on building fundamental canoe skills. Develop basic knowledge and skills necessary for safe and comfortable canoe travel/camping while minimizing environmental impacts
MUNM 100A - Music lessons for non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons while in college. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
MATH 100A - Review of the topics in a second-year high school algebra course taught at the college level. Includes: real numbers, 1st and 2nd degree equations and inequalities, linear systems, polynomials and rational expressions, exponents and radicals. Heavy emphasis on problem solving strategies and techniques.
MUNM 100B - Music lessons for non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons while in college. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
MUNM 100D - Music lessons for non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons while in college. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
MUNM 100E - Music lessons for non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons while in college. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
FITN 100E - Teaches the basics of open water diving including equipment preparation, pre-dive safety check, assembly and maintenance, underwater swimming, descents and ascents. This covers the skills to become a knowledgeable and confident diver.
MUNM 100G - Music lessons for non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons while in college. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
MUNM 100J - Music lessons for non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons while in college. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
MUNM 100K - Elective credit only. Taught individually or in groups as necessary. Permission based on availability in studio.
COMB 100N - Learn the traditional Japanese martial art of Naginata. Atarashii (modern) Naginata is a martial arts discipline covering basic footwork, cutting, and other technical movements using a naginata with a wooden shaft and a bamboo, mock &quot;blade&quot;.  The emphasis is on building fundamental skills, respect and good sportsmanship, personal discipline as well as Asian cultural awareness. This requires active participation with no prior martial arts experience needed.
JAPN 101 - Fundamentals of the language. Emphasis on speaking and listening. Japanese phonetic symbols (Hiragana and Katakana).
ARAB 101 - This course will lay the foundation of modern standard Arabic; the grammar, syntax, vocabulary, and structure of the language.
CHIN 101 - Fundamentals of the language. Speaking and listening. Transcription of Chinese sounds in Roman letters (in Pinyin system). Reading and writing of characters.
CZEC 101 - Readings, writings, conversation and listening comprehension topics include family, personal information and various aspects of the Czech cultural and social life.
DRAW 101 - Fundamental principles of drawing and perspective based on observation and imagination.
FREN 101 - Main emphasis on the development of comprehension of written and spoken French; reading of simple texts dealing primarily with contemporary France and French life; oral and aural drill supplemented by practice in language laboratory.
GERM 101 - Introduction to contemporary German. Stresses oral and written communication, reading and aural comprehension.
RUSS 101 - Main emphasis on the development of comprehension of written and spoken Russian; reading of simple texts; oral and aural drill supplemented by practice in language laboratory.
SPAN 101 - Emphasis on development of comprehension of written and spoken Spanish; reading of simple texts dealing primarily with the Spanish-speaking world and with cultural and historical background of Spanish civilization; oral and aural drill supplemented by practice in pronunciation laboratory.
CHEM 101 - Introduction to chemistry careers and faculty research interests in the Department of Chemistry.   This course is required for all chemistry majors (B.S. and B.A.) but is open to all students interested in learning about the chemistry program and its relationship to careers.
AHIS 101 - Survey of the history of western art from the earliest times to the end of the Medieval period.
MATH 101 - Real numbers, exponents, factoring, linear and quadratic equations, absolute value, inequalities, functions, graphing, polynomial and rational functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, system of equations.
COMM 101 - Introduction to the discipline of communication studies through a problem centered learning approach.  How communication theory can be applied to solve everyday problems in public, professional, and private lives through learning how to advocate, negotiate, and relate.
BIOC 101 - Introduction to the field of biochemistry and exploration of biochemistry related careers.
GEOL 101 - Minerals, rocks, and ores; the surface features and internal character of the earth and the forces that are constantly changing it. Examination of minerals and rocks and investigation of geological processes and their products.
LATN 101 - Fundamentals of grammar. Reading and writing of simple Latin.
MLSC 101 - Issues and competencies central to a commissioned officer's responsibilities. Understanding officership, leadership, Army values and life skills, such as physical fitness and time management.
THEA 101 - Explores efficient physical alignment, a practical understanding of breath, healthy speaking practices, imagination and play, improvisation, and personal creative habits as they pertain to the body as an instrument for acting.
CSCE 101 - Introduction to problem solving with computers. Problem analysis and specification, algorithm development, program design, and implementation in a high-level programming environment. Hardware, software, software engineering, networks, and impacts of computing on society.
BIOS 101 - Analysis of the structure, functions, and interactions of organisms from the molecular to the ecosystem levels.
MBIO 101 - Introduction to the Microbiology major by providing an overview of Microbiology as a field of science, possible career paths, and opportunities available to Microbiology majors.
CIVE 101 - Introduction to engineering design process through hands-on projects supported by instruction of underlying engineering science and fundamentals, model development, and the required tools.  Exploration of civil engineering disciplines and introduction to civil engineering profession with focus on ethics and professional skills.
DSGN 101 - Introduction to architecture, industrial design, interior design, landscape architecture and related design fields; the forces that shape these fields and the processes of production they rely upon.
ENVE 101 - Introduction to engineering design process through hands-on projects supported by instruction of underlying engineering science and fundamentals, model development, and the required tools. Be exposed to environmental engineering to know what it means to be an environmental engineer and an introduction to environmental engineering profession with focus on ethics.
PHIL 101 - Historical-cultural introduction to philosophy. Considers a broad range of philosophical problems in relation to the major historical and cultural conditions which have influenced their formulations and proposed solutions. Topics: the principles of rational inquiry; the nature of knowledge; the metaphysics of mind, world, and God; and the sources and authority of morality.
SOCI 101 - Introduction to the sociological study of human behavior, especially social organization, culture, and the social institutions that comprise society. Attention to social change, differentiation and inequality, and other social issues.
WMNS 101 - Personal, interpersonal and institutional dimensions of women's experiences from a variety of perspectives.
JOMC 101 - Introduction to the mass media as sources of news and entertainment conduits for messages of persuasion. Background and history about print and broadcast media and about public relations. How the media and persuasive messages both affect and are affected by society and content.  Open to non-College of Journalism and Mass Communications majors.
SCIL 101 - Introduction to the scientific, social, economic, political and cultural dimensions of current issues related to food, energy, water, health and landscape systems. Accessing and evaluating popular and scientific media, and engaging in science-informed decision-making.
CRIM 101 - The justice process and the criminal justice system in general. Concepts of crime, deviance and justice, and general theories of crime causality. Individual rights in a democratic society and the legal definitions of various crimes. Law enforcement, judicial, juvenile justice and corrections subsystems explored and a number of reform proposals presented.
MUAP 101 - Applied studio instruction in Voice.
COMB 101D - Learn traditional Japanese martial art of Shotokan Karate. Karate is a martial arts discipline covering basic stances, punches, kicks, and blocking techniques for the purpose of self-defense.  The emphasis is on building fundamental skills, respect and good sportsmanship, personal discipline as well as Asian cultural awareness. This requires active participation with no prior martial arts experience needed.
COMB 101E - Teach safety principles and skills to avoid and minimize violence. Basic techniques, practices, and awareness for the purpose of personal defense and safety is covered.  No previous martial arts experience is required to develop the basic physical/technical skill in Personal Defense necessary for safe practice in everyday situations.
UHON 101H - Acclimate to the University Honors Program's expectations, requirements, and community.
SCIL 101H - Introduction to the scientific, social, economic, political and cultural dimensions of current issues related to food, energy, water, health and landscape systems. Accessing and evaluating popular and scientific media, and engaging in science-informed decision-making.
COMB 101J - Learn the traditional Japanese martial art of Kendo. Kendo is a martial art covering basic footwork, cutting, and other technical movements using a &quot;shinai&quot;, a mock sword made of bamboo.  The emphasis is on building fundamental skills, respect and good sportsmanship, personal discipline as well as Asian cultural awareness. This requires active participation with no prior martial arts experience needed.
CSCE 101L - A variety of computer oriented exercises using many software tools is presented which supplement and are coordinated with the topics taught in <a href="/search/?P=CSCE%20101" title="CSCE&#160;101" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CSCE 101');">CSCE&#160;101</a>. Students are exposed to programming, operating systems, simulation software, spreadsheets, database software, the Internet, etc. Applications software introduced in the context of tools to explore the computer science topics and as alternatives to traditional programming languages. Emphasis on learning by experiment, with a goal of developing problem solving skills. A major component is the study of a programming language-the choice of which may vary by course section.
BIOS 101L - Laboratory exercises and experiments that complement material covered in <a href="/search/?P=BIOS%20101" title="BIOS&#160;101" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'BIOS 101');">BIOS&#160;101</a>.
MLSC 101L - Challenging, rewarding and practical activities in military skill development. Development of confidence and learning the importance of teamwork in goal accomplishment. Rappelling, land navigation and map reading, marksmanship, survival training, personal defense activities, survival swimming, military weapons, military drill, cardiopulmonary resuscitation and first aid.
FREN 102 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=FREN%20101" title="FREN&#160;101" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'FREN 101');">FREN&#160;101</a>.
GERM 102 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=GERM%20101" title="GERM&#160;101" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'GERM 101');">GERM&#160;101</a>. Readings on contemporary cultural and social issues in German-speaking countries.
SPAN 102 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=SPAN%20101" title="SPAN&#160;101" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'SPAN 101');">SPAN&#160;101</a>.
ALEC 102 - Introduction to the principles and practices of positive interpersonal relationships for leadership development. Self-awareness, awareness of others, effective interpersonal communication, and the building of trust relationships as a basis for understanding and developing leadership. An experiential approach, field projects and a supervised service project.
ECEN 102 - An overview of the electrical engineering field. Introduction to some basic concepts and skills needed in electrical engineering. Professionalism and ethics are addressed as well as the need for lifelong learning experiences. Information on professional careers available upon graduation.
MUAP 102 - Applied studio instruction in Piano
AHIS 102 - Survey of the history of western art from the Renaissance period to the twentieth century.
MATH 102 - Trigonometric functions, identities, trigonometric equations, solution of triangles, inverse trigonometric functions and graphs. Applications of trigonometry.
FITN 102D - Learn the fundamentals of introductory strength training, proficiency in basic weight lifting exercises like squat, bench, and deadlift, and basic knowledge in exercise programming for their specific goal. This requires active participation in the weight room.
UHON 102H - Begin the process of defining academic and professional identities, cultivate valuable interpersonal skills, and develop a personalized plan for future Honors education.
MATH 103 - First and second degree equations and inequalities, absolute value, functions, polynomial and rational functions, exponential and logarithmic functions, trigonometric functions and identities, laws of sines and cosines, applications, polar coordinates, systems of equations, graphing, conic sections.
ASTR 103 - Approach is essentially nonmathematical. Survey of the nature and motions of the planets, the sun, the stars, and their lives, galaxies, and the structure of the universe. Black holes, pulsars, quasars, and other objects of special interest included.
CONE 103 - Introduction to the organization and terminology of construction engineering. Overview of technical and management skills required to succeed in the construction engineering profession.
ODED 103A - Provides a foundation for rock climbing and fosters an appreciation for climbing as a collection of many different disciplines and skills.
ASTR 103H - Approach is essentially non-mathematical, but simple algebra is employed where appropriate. Sun and solar system, the stars, galaxies, and cosmology. Black holes, pulsars, quasars, and other objects of special interest included. Emphasis on both &quot;what is out there&quot; and &quot;how we know it&quot;.
FITN 103N - Covers a variety of Group Fitness formats including strength, aerobic, HIIT, and Mind and Body training. Participation in a variety of group fitness classes while simultaneously learning about the history and instruction techniques of the format.
MATH 104 - Rudiments of differential and integral calculus with applications to problems from business, economics, and social sciences.
POLS 104 - Description and analysis of the principal types of modern political systems, including types of democracies and dictatorships found in Western systems, Eastern systems, and the Third World. Occasional comparison made with American institutions and political processes. Deals both with structures and major policy problems confronting these political systems: the politics of education, human rights, demands for regional autonomy, ethnic conflict and diversity, political violence, demand for welfare services, crises in agriculture, and other topics of relevance.
TMFD 104 - Computer aided design software functions and processes specific to textiles, merchandising and fashion design.  Introduction to desgin software at the basic level.
COMB 104 - Learn the traditional Israeli form of fighting called Krav Maga. Krav Maga is a martial art covering self-defense techniques to become more aggressive and accurate in a self-defense situation. The emphasis is on basic fighting stance and movement, punches, kicks and how to defend against such movements. This requires active participation with no prior martial arts experience needed.
GEOL 105 - Introduction to the history of life based on the fossil record, evolutionary patterns, and processes.
PHIL 105 - A wide-ranging examination of the philosophical, political, social, and economic aspects of food, its production and consumption. Topics include the ethical treatment of animals, factory farming, food justice, the relation of food to social and religious identity, and climate change.
MUAP 105 - Applied studio instruction in Violin
CHEM 105A - The extraordinary chemistry of ordinary things. The chemical model of solids, liquids, gases, molecules, and salts. How these models are used to explore chemical aspects of biological, social, or economic situation.
ODED 105A - Introduction to whitewater kayaking with an emphasis on building whitewater kayak skills. Will develop knowledge and skills necessary to navigate Class II whitewater while minimizing environmental impacts.
INDV 105B - Teaches a broad understanding and appreciation for the sport, as well as, to provide the necessary skills to bowl. Will teach the introductory terminology, rules, strategies, and scoring procedures for beginners
INDV 105D - Learn the rules, etiquette, and course management of the sport of golf. This covers all aspects of the game including the fundamentals of the golf swing, putting and chipping. This requires active participation to apply the principles learned through practice at a Lincoln golf course.
FITN 105E - Experiential requirements for Open Water Diver Scuba Diving International (SDI) certification.
CHEM 105L - Accompanying lab to <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20105A" title="CHEM&#160;105A" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 105A');">CHEM&#160;105A</a>.
MATH 106 - Functions of one variable, limits, differentiation, exponential, trigonometric and inverse trigonometric functions, maximum-minimum, and basic integration theory (Riemann sums) with some applications.
PHIL 106 - Critical survey of current issues and the role of philosophy in attempts to resolve them. Recent topics: sexual morality, pornography and the law, capital punishment, sexism and racism, extraordinary treatment for the terminally ill, abortion, church and state, and nuclear war and disarmament.
MUAP 106 - Applied studio instruction in Viola
FITN 106E - Introduction to the world of beats-based and drill-based cycling. Focuses on building an aerobic base, how to monitor intensity, and add in high intensity interval training drills.
MATH 107 - Integration theory; techniques of integration; applications of definite integrals; sequences and series; convergence of series; power series; Taylor series and their applications.
MUAP 107 - Applied studio instruction in Cello.
JOUR 107 - Introduction to techniques for gathering information for use in preparing news for public media. Get information from libraries, public records, advanced web searching, government document repositories and interviews with people.
PLAS 107 - The flora of the earth is constantly being re-distributed by natural and human forces. As plant species change locations, they affect ecosystems, but how? In this course, students will learn how invasive plants establish and spread in ecosystems and develop an understanding of their impacts on ecosystems from local to global scales.
ARCH 107 - Introduction to the fundamentals, principles and current assessments relative to responsible, sustainable design as applied to the built environment.
ENGL 107 - Seven (or more) inspiring and transformative works of literature chosen from a broad range of times and places, from ancient India to modern U.S.
ODED 107B - Gain the knowledge and skills necessary to plan and go on a one-two day backpacking trip
MATH 107H - For course description, see <a href="/search/?P=MATH%20107" title="MATH&#160;107" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MATH 107');">MATH&#160;107</a>.
MUAP 108 - Applied studio instruction in Double Bass
RELG 108 - The world's major religious traditions: Judaism, Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, Taoism, and Confucianism.
RACS 108K - Gain a broad understanding and appreciation for the sport, as well as, to improve the skills to play racquetball.  This covers introductory concepts to allow for Racquetball play at a recreational level. This contains beginning level concepts designed for individuals with little to no racquetball experience.
MUAP 109 - Applied studio instruction in Harp
GEOL 109 - Introduction to physical oceanography, the geologic aspects of biologic oceanography, and human impact on the oceans.
AGST 109 - Fundamental principles of mechanics, heat, electricity, magnetism and electromagnetism and their relationship to energy utilization and conservation. Principles then applied to problem situations in agriculture and life sciences.
CHEM 109A - Lecture serving as an introduction to chemical reactions, the mole concept, properties of the states of matter, atomic structure, periodic properties, chemical bonding, and molecular structure.
ODED 109B - Provides a basic foundation for assessment of and care for trauma, medical, and environmental emergencies in the backcountry, more than 1 hour from definitive care.
CHEM 109L - Use scientific methods, skills, and knowledge to examine matter in ways that address chemical questions relating to the mole concept, properties of the states of matter, atomic structure, periodic properties, chemical bonding, and molecular structure.
SPAN 110 - Covers equivalent materials to those presented in <a href="/search/?P=SPAN%20101" title="SPAN&#160;101" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'SPAN 101');">SPAN&#160;101</a>/<a href="/search/?P=SPAN%20102" title="SPAN&#160;102" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'SPAN 102');">SPAN&#160;102</a>.
HIST 110 - Survey of American history from the age of discovery through the Civil War. Emphasis on political, economic, and social problems in the growth of the American nation.
ENSC 110 - Scientific principles and historical interpretation to place energy use in the context of pressing societal, environmental and climate issues.
BIOS 110 - Introduction to biology with a focus on organization of molecules and cells to the level of human body systems; basic structure (anatomy) and function (physiology) of human tissues, organs and organ systems; reproduction, genetics; DNA technology and genetic engineering.
ANTH 110 - Introduction to the study of society and culture, integrating the four major subfields of anthropology: archaeology, cultural anthropology, linguistics, and physical anthropology.
PHIL 110 - Introduction to the principles of correct reasoning and their application. Emphasis on improving skills of thinking and reading critically, analyzing and evaluating arguments objectively, and constructing sound arguments based on relevant evidence.
UGEP 110 - Designed to assist with the transition from high school to college. Covers topics such as time management, social and academic integration, money management, identity and diversity awareness. Seeks connection with additional University academic support services, social engagement, and leadership opportunities.
EMAR 110 - Introduction to storytelling across multiple media platforms. Development of storytelling craft and technique. Critical analysis of story structure for media production.
MUAP 110 - Applied studio instruction in Trumpet
CHEM 110A - Lecture serving as an introduction to intermolecular forces, kinetics, chemical equilibrium, thermodynamics, and electrochemistry.
CHEM 110L - Accompanying laboratory for <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20110A" title="CHEM&#160;110A" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 110A');">CHEM&#160;110A</a>.
BIOS 110L - Hands-on lab exercises to understand biological concepts of human organization from molecules to cells to the body systems, basic structure and function of human tissues, organs, organ systems, reproduction, genetics, as well as DNA technology and genetic engineering.
HIST 111 - Emphasis on the political, economic, and social problems accompanying America's rise as an industrialized world power.
DANC 111 - Classical ballet technique leading to an exact and proper application of the fundamentals and principles of ballet movement and vocabulary.
MUAP 111 - Applied studio instruction in Horn.
BIOS 111 - Comparative study of microorganisms important for human health and disease (bacteria, fungi, viruses, prions), principles and applications of microbiology.
NAVS 111 - Introduction to seapower and the naval service. The mission, organization, regulations, and broad warfare components of the Navy and Marine Corps. Officer and enlisted rank and rating structures; training; promotions; naval customs and courtesies; ship nomenclature; leadership and discipline. Throughout the course students are apprised of the major challenges facing today's naval officer.
BSAD 111 - Focuses on identifying and developing your unique strengths for personal success in college and in life. Part of the Professional Enhancement Program (PREP), a series of classes designed to develop professional, confident and polished students for lifelong career success.
SCLP 111 - Introduction to 3-dimensional sculpture and design using studio production, problem solving, critical dialog, and an overview of 20th century design and sculpture history.
COMB 111D - Teach traditional Japanese martial art of Shotokan Karate. Karate is a discipline that includes basic stances, punches, kicks, and blocking techniques for the purpose of self-defense. Emphasis on building fundamental skills, respect and good sportsmanship, personal discipline as well as Asian cultural awareness. Introduction to more complex techniques and kata (forms) that will improve skills in Shotokan Karate in order to explore competition, personal improvement, and advancement.
COMB 111J - Advance skills in the traditional Japanese martial art of Kendo. Kendo is a martial art that includes basic footwork, cutting, and other technical movements using a &quot;shinai&quot;, a mock sword made of bamboo.  The emphasis is on reinforcing fundamental skills, respect and good sportsmanship, personal discipline as well as Asian cultural awareness. Improve technical skills in order to explore personal improvement and advancement.
BSAD 111S - Focuses on identifying unique strengths for personal success in college and in life.  Provides transfer students with essential information to understand their strengths.  Part of the Professional Enhancement Program (PrEP), a series of classes designed to develop professional, confident and polished students for lifelong career success.
DANC 112 - Introductory phase of studio training in Modern Dance.  Emphasis is placed on mastering the fundamentals of movement including style, phrasing, musicality, personal interpretation, and improvisation.
HIST 112 - Study of present-day issues in American society and the historical origins of those issues. Exploration of U.S. contemporary society in a global, comparative perspective. Themes include political development and change, social reform movements, immigration and identity, technology, and war.
CIVE 112 - Overview of civil engineering as a career by use of case studies; alternate approaches to engineering designs illustrated by use of engineering principles.
MUAP 112 - Applied studio instruction in Trombone
THEA 112G - Introduction to the forms and functions of theatre and dramatic literature in the historical development of Western cultural traditions. While the theatre always reflects the aesthetic and philosophical concerns of the cultural era, the objective of the course is to determine the unique aesthetics of the theatre as an art form by exploring such issues as the relationship between the literary text and the text in performance; the changing role of theatre in culture historically; the various theatre research methods (historical, critical, experimental).
MUAP 113 - Applied studio instruction in Euphonium
CHME 113 - The profession of chemical enginering. Chemical engineers' impact on today's societal issues, team problem solving, communication skills, and the introduction of chemical process flow sheets.
CHEM 113A - Fundamentals of chemistry for students in physical sciences or chemical engineering. Includes atomic and molecular structure, chemical bonding, states of matter, solutions, and acid-base reactions. Intended for students who plan to take upper-level courses in chemistry.
ODED 113A - Provides a basic foundation for rock climbing in order to climb outdoors comfortably while building basic skills required to examine and build simple top rope anchors
CHEM 113L - Accompanying lab for <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20113A" title="CHEM&#160;113A" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 113A');">CHEM&#160;113A</a>.
COMB 114 - Learn intermediary concepts of traditional Israeli form of fighting called Krav Maga. Krav Maga is a martial art covering self-defense techniques to become more aggressive and accurate in a self-defense situation. The emphasis is on the fighting stance and movement, punches, kicks and how to defend against such movements. This requires active participation and previous martial arts experience needed.
MUAP 114 - Applied studio instruction in Tuba
HIST 115 - Introductory survey of the intersections between race, gender, and the law in U.S. history. Includes a review of colonial legal regimes regarding empire, slavery, and liberty; key concepts in American law such as federal Indian law and tribal sovereignty; gendered and racialized restrictions on citizenship and civil rights; tensions between state and federal authority; and historic campaigns for the expansion and restriction of individual liberties.
AGRI 115 - Application of biotechnology to genetically engineer, identify, select or propagate microbes, plants or animals. Scientists who use biotechnology to solve problems with the environment, with our food system, or with human health.
PHYS 115 - Qualitative approach to physics for the non-science major that emphasizes concepts and how they are used to understand the everyday physical world. Newton's description of motion and forces, the atomic view of matter, kinds and transformations of energy, the nature of electricity and magnetism, sound and light waves, and subatomic particles. Some topics selected according to student interest.  Recommended for all students wanting a nonmathematical look at basic discoveries of physics.
MUAP 115 - Applied studio instruction in Flute.
BIOS 115 - Fundamental insect biology (anatomy, development, physiology, behavior, ecology and diversity). Economic and medical importance of insects and principles of insect pest management.
ENTO 115 - Fundamental insect biology (anatomy, development, physiology, behavior, ecology and diversity). Economic and medical importance of insects and principles of insect pest management.
INDV 115B - Learn a broad understanding and appreciation for the sport, as well as, to improve overall bowling skills.  This builds technique to bowl at a competitive level for individuals with prior bowling experience. This requires active participation
CLAS 116 - Medical language and terminology derived from Greek and Latin, with some attention to other scientific and technical terminology.
MUAP 116 - Applied studio instruction in Oboe
MUAP 117 - Applied studio instruction in Clarinet
ASTR 117 - Survey of what modern science tells us about the possibilities of life elsewhere in the universe.  Topics include how the Earth formed and became suitable for life, how life arose on the Earth, the conditions under which life can thrive, places in the solar system that might support life, the existence of other solar systems that might provide suitable habitats, and attempts to find evidence of life on other planets.
MUAP 118 - Applied studio instruction in Bassoon
MUAP 119 - Applied studio instruction in Saxophone
JGEN 120 - Principles of written professional communication. Language basics, functional documents and readability.
UGEP 120 - Exploring individual passion areas and their relation to the purpose for attending college. Active integration of on and off campus experiences to help deepen appreciation of other classroom and co-curricular experiences. Development of skills in leadership, communication skills, and recognition of other's experiences.
LIFE 120 - First in a series of life sciences courses. A systems approach to the study of life at the cellular level, investigating cellular structures, chemical processes, cell metabolism, cell division, gene expression and introducing patterns of inheritance.
EMAR 120 - Experiential-based exploration of live performance, game creation and group collaboration as a model for project development and iterative practices.
MUAP 120 - Applied studio instruction in Percussion
HIST 120 - General patterns of human experience beginning with earliest human communities: modes of production; structures of power; and systems of belief. The similarities and differences that exist among the world's major regions and cultural traditions.
LIFE 120L - This laboratory will use a systems-based approach to explore the study of life at the cellular level, investigating cellular structures, chemical processes, cell metabolism, cell division, gene expression and introducing patterns of inheritance.
FORS 120L - Practical aspects of forensic sciences. Forensic entomology, soil science, blood spatter, fingerprints, trace evidence, odontology, footmark analysis, palynology, and osteology.
LIFE 121 - Second in a series of life sciences courses.  A systems-based phylogenetic approach to the study of organisms considering their morphology, life histories, physiology and ecology. The nature and evolution of biological diversity and how that diversity is studied.
ENTR 121 - Combines the expertise of Business College faculty with real world experiences of successful practitioners to examine the success principles of the free enterprise system and provide students an understanding of the nature of entrepreneurship and intrapreneurship.
TMFD 121 - An introduction to animation and design fundamentals and their application in visual communications. Problems and solutions will be explored relative to the needs of various professions that use images and animations to convey meaning.
HIST 121 - General patterns of human experience in the rise of the modern world: modes of production; structures of power; and systems of belief. The similarities and differences that exist among the world's major regions and cultural traditions.
LIFE 121L - Systems-based approach to explore the morphology, phylogeny, life histories, physiology and ecology of organisms.
TMFD 123 - Analysis of social, cultural, aesthetic, and economic influences on clothing and human behavior.
MUAP 124 - Applied studio instruction in Guitar
COMB 124 - Learn advanced concepts of traditional Israeli form of fighting called Krav Maga. Krav Maga is a martial art covering self-defense techniques to become more aggressive and accurate in a self-defense situation. The emphasis is on the fighting stance and movement, punches, kicks and how to defend against such movements. This requires active participation and previous martial arts experience needed.
GEOL 125 - Scientific exploration of the modern environment and geological and climate history of the Antarctic continent and Southern Ocean.
JOMC 130 - Live events, online materials and activities in design thinking, storytelling, and how technology works to challenge students to think creatively, strategically and intelligently when producing content.
CNST 131 - Introduction to basic management principles and practices for labor, materials, machinery, and budgets.
MUSC 131 - Introduction for music majors to the development of functional piano technique for application to music theory, music reading, harmonization, improvisation, and other practical skills. Normally taken with <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20160" title="MUSC&#160;160" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 160');">MUSC&#160;160</a>, <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20165" title="MUSC&#160;165" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 165');">MUSC&#160;165</a>, <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20165A" title="MUSC&#160;165A" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 165A');">MUSC&#160;165A</a> as the beginning of the music core curriculum
HIST 131 - Analyzes on a topical basis the impact of social, economic, political, and intellectual changes upon Europe from the Enlightenment and describes the dramatic rise of Europe to prominence in the world and the equally dramatic demise of European domination in the twentieth-century age of war and destruction.
PLAS 131 - The biology of plants grown for food, feed, fuel, fiber and fun! Starting with natural and managed ecosystems and their interactions, the course then introduces how plants obtain and manage water and nutrients before giving a big picture view of carbon assimilation, metabolism and storage in terms of plant productivity and growth in variable environments. The way plants respond to endogenous and applied growth regulators as well as genetic signals is described, before considering the role of genetics in plant pest interactions and management.
CHEM 131 - Covers general and food chemistry, nutrition, food microbiology, food safety and quality, standards that are enforced by regulatory agencies, and food processes applied to improve food quality, shelf life and safety.
FDST 131 - Covers general and food chemistry, nutrition, food microbiology, food safety and quality, standards that are enforced by regulatory agencies, and food processes applied to improve food quality, shelf life and safety.
NUTR 131 - Covers general and food chemistry, nutrition, food microbiology, food safety and quality, standards that are enforced by regulatory agencies, and food processes applied to improve food quality, shelf life and safety.
JOMC 131 - Self-paced modules and weekly critiques introduce students to specific types of content in traditional and digital media, such as video, photography, layout, typography, web design, audio and mobile.
CHEM 131H - Covers general and food chemistry, nutrition, food microbiology, food safety and quality, standards that are enforced by regulatory agencies, and food processes applied to improve food quality, shelf life and safety.
FDST 131H - Covers general and food chemistry, nutrition, food microbiology, food safety and quality, standards that are enforced by regulatory agencies, and food processes applied to improve food quality, shelf life and safety.
NUTR 131H - Covers general and food chemistry, nutrition, food microbiology, food safety and quality, standards that are enforced by regulatory agencies, and food processes applied to improve food quality, shelf life and safety.
CERM 132 - Introduction to the materials, techniques, processes, and aesthetics involved in making ceramic art focusing on handbuilding techniques and low temperature materials.
MUSC 132 - Continued development of functional piano skills such as sight-reading, harmonization, and improvisation.
JOMC 132 - Students continue self-paced modules and weekly critiques to learn fundamentals of specific types of content in traditional and digital media, such as video, photography, layout, typography, web design, audio and mobile.
JOMC 133 - Students continue self-paced modules and weekly critiques to achieve more advanced proficiency in specific types of visual communication used in traditional and digital media.
JOMC 134 - Produce multimedia group project that communicates information about organization, group, social issue, etc. Use all skills developed in previous modules.
FITN 140 - Learn the fundamentals of yoga, demonstrate yoga techniques, poses, breathing exercises and meditation/relaxation. Additionally, yoga's philosophy, ethics and lifestyle are covered. No prior yoga experience is required.
GEOG 140 - Human populations, cultures, and landscapes, with particular attention to human-environment relations and global interconnections.
CASC 140 - An introduction to legal education, the legal system, possible legal careers, and what it takes to be admitted to law school.
METR 140 - Meteorological basics to help understand ice storms, blizzards, tornadoes, hurricanes, flooding, droughts, and other unusual weather.
EMAR 140 - The elements, principles and practices of design as a storytelling language.
CLAS 141 - Introduction to ancient Rome. Mass spectacles such as drama, gladiatorial combat, and public executions.
PHYS 141 - Introduces physics in biological context, investigating the fundamental physics that govern living systems. Topics include mechanics, fluids, heat, and waves, and sound.
PHYS 142 - Introduces physics in biological context, investigating the fundamental physics that govern living systems. Topics include electricity and magnetism, circuits, optics, atomic and nuclear physics.
TMFD 144 - Describe, analyze, interpret and evaluate two and three dimensional design forms.
FITN 145 - Learn advanced concepts, yoga techniques, poses, breathing exercises and meditation/relaxation. Additionally, yoga's philosophy, ethics and lifestyle are covered. Prior yoga experience is recommended.
THEA 150 - Presents a practical, exploratory, and historical approach to the acting process with a primary focus on physical engagement, impulse, awareness, and the creative spirit.
CASC 150 - Structure, requirements, and nature of health careers.
SPMC 150 - Examines the primary concepts and conflicts in contemporary sports communication.
POLS 150 - An introduction to the central theories, methods, and findings in the application of biological and psychological techniques to politics.
GLST 150 - Exploration of the historical Jesus, the variant forms that the memory and theologies of Jesus have taken outside of Christian traditions, including Islam, Judaism, Buddhism, and Hinduism, and in the American context, including in the context of Lincoln, Nebraska.
RELG 150 - Exploration of the historical Jesus, the variant forms that the memory and theologies of Jesus have taken outside of Christian traditions, including Islam, Judaism, Buddhism, and Hinduism, and in the American context, including in the context of Lincoln, Nebraska.
ARTP 150 - Introduction to methods, aesthetic concerns and professional paths in all studio areas and essential skills in digital portfolio preparation, visual thinking, visual problem solving and reflective writing.
ENGL 150 - Study and practice of writing using such rhetorical concepts as purpose, audience, genre, cultural context, and style to develop strategies for writing, thinking, and research.
ARTP 151 - Introduction to color theory and the use of color in design and to elements and principles of two dimensional composition and design in both pigment and digital media
PHYS 151 - Short course, without laboratory, for those who need one semester of elementary general physics. Emphasis on understanding our physical environment through application of principles of mechanics, heat, sound, electricity, and light.
ADPR 151 - Fundamental concepts and processes underlying integrated marketing communications in a global market place. The discipline's historical roots and current role of professionals.
ENGL 151 - Intensive writing. Writing as a tool for ongoing learning. Develop writing projects including argument for multiple purposes and audiences.
ENGL 151H - Intensive writing. Writing as a tool for inquiry, learning and argument. Develop writing projects for multiple purposes and audiences.
ARTP 152 - Three dimensional studio practice based in research and observation, in a context of ideas and meaning, and through transformation and manipulation of materials and processes.
PHYS 153 - Laboratory experiments in mechanics, heat, and wave motion.
PLAS 153 - Investigation into the physical, chemical and biological properties of soils, in relation to their appropriate uses, protection, and vital roles or functions in broader plant-soil systems. Apply exercises such as discussion, evidence-based writing, assessment, planning, problem-solving, and presentations in relation to principles and practices involving all aspects of soils.
SOIL 153 - Investigation into the physical, chemical and biological properties of soils, in relation to their appropriate uses, protection, and vital roles or functions in broader plant-soil systems. Apply exercises such as discussion, evidence-based writing, assessment, planning, problem-solving, and presentations in relation to principles and practices involving all aspects of soils.
GEOG 155 - Investigation of the basic elements of the physical environment of the earth and its atmosphere. Includes atmospheric processes, temperature distributions, weather systems, severe weather, climates, water balance, vegetation and soil distributions, landforms and their processes, and natural hazards. Modifying influences that humans have on the physical environment and atmosphere examined.
MUNM 155 - The study of the language of western tonal music.  Develop an understanding of note names, chords, scales, melody, harmony, rhythm, notation, and traditional practices of how these elements are used together.
CSCE 155A - Introduction to problem solving with computers. Topics include problem solving methods, software development principles, computer programming, and computing in society.
CSCE 155E - Introduction to problem solving with computers. Topics include problem solving methods, software development principles, computer programming, and computing in society
CSCE 155H - Introduction to problem solving with computers. Topics include problem solving methods, software development principles, computer programming, and computing in society.
CSCE 155N - Introduction to problem solving with computers. Topics include problem solving methods, software development principles, computer programming, and computing in society.
CSCE 155T - Introduction to computers and problem-solving with computers. Topics include problem solving methods, software development principles, computer programming, and computing in society.
CSCE 156 - Data structures, including linked lists, stacks, queues, and trees; algorithms, including searching, sorting, and recursion; programming language topics, including object-oriented programming; pointers, references, and memory management; design and implementation of a multilayer application with SQL database.
DANC 159 - Historical survey of dance from the late 19th through 21st Century.
EMAR 160 - Development of computation and computer science skills and knowledge in context of emerging media arts.
FITN 160 - The American Red Cross First Aid/CPR/AED program helps participants recognize and respond appropriately to cardiac, breathing and first aid emergencies. This covers knowledge and skills needed to give immediate care to an injured or ill person and to decide whether advanced medical care is needed.
CYAF 160 - Developmental life cycle approach to the study of the individual from conception to death. Each stage of life studied from the perspective of how individual development is fostered within the family system.
GLST 160 - How and why states act as they do in their contemporary international relations. Continuing factors, such as power, war, ideology, and governmental organizations, and recently emerging influences, including supranational organizations, multinational corporations, and natural resource allocation analyzed. Diverse approaches and theories examined.
POLS 160 - How and why states act as they do in their contemporary international relations. Continuing factors, such as power, war, ideology, and governmental organizations, and recently emerging influences, including supranational organizations, multinational corporations, and natural resource allocation analyzed. Diverse approaches and theories examined.
MUSC 160 - Introduction to the degree programs in music and resources for the study of music at the university level. Historical, social, and stylistic views of music in western and non-western cultures. Significance of music in cultural history, and the understanding of music as aesthetic expression. How to listen to and appreciate the human and cultural values of music. This class is intended for music majors. Normally taken with <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20131" title="MUSC&#160;131" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 131');">MUSC&#160;131</a>, <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20165" title="MUSC&#160;165" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 165');">MUSC&#160;165</a>, <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20165A" title="MUSC&#160;165A" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 165A');">MUSC&#160;165A</a> as the beginning of the music core curriculum.
ETHN 160 - Representations of Native Americans in popular culture and what they mean for understanding Native experiences and North American history more generally. How Native people portray themselves, cultural misappropriation, sports mascots, gender, Indigenous hip hop, transnational representations, and political activism.
HIST 160 - Representations of Native Americans in popular culture and what they mean for understanding Native experiences and North American history more generally. How Native people portray themselves, cultural misappropriation, sports mascots, gender, Indigenous hip hop, transnational representations, and political activism.
SOFT 160 - Introduction to software engineering and to problem solving with computers. Topics include problem solving methods, the use of computational resources to solve problems, and techniques for collaborative software development. Techniques based on disciplined software engineering principles and practices for engineering, building, analyzing and managing software-related artifacts. Common tools and techniques for developing, analyzing, testing, debugging, and managing software and software-related artifacts.
ARTP 160 - Explore how street art practices highlight the unique relationships that develop between artists, communities and society-at-large within the urban environment. Study this public form of expression from early graffiti writing and birth of hip hop, to its current use as the voice of resistance and protest.
PHOT 161 - Introduction to photography as a fine arts medium. Instruction in digital photography with emphasis on seeing photographically.
HIST 165 - A chronological and thematic survey of American disasters from the late 19th century to the present. Defining disasters, studying the impact of both natural and manmade disasters, looking at the intersection between disastrous events and race, gender, and socio-economic factors.
MUSC 165 - Beginning fundamentals of music. Beginning theory (notation, rhythm, and meter, pitch and melody, harmony and form). Normally taken with <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20131" title="MUSC&#160;131" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 131');">MUSC&#160;131</a>, <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20160" title="MUSC&#160;160" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 160');">MUSC&#160;160</a>, <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20165A" title="MUSC&#160;165A" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 165A');">MUSC&#160;165A</a> as the beginning of the music core curriculum.
MUSC 165A - Intensive drill in musicianship skills (ear training, sight singing, and keyboard). Normally taken with <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20131" title="MUSC&#160;131" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 131');">MUSC&#160;131</a>, <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20160" title="MUSC&#160;160" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 160');">MUSC&#160;160</a>, <a href="/search/?P=MUSC%20165" title="MUSC&#160;165" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUSC 165');">MUSC&#160;165</a> as the beginning of the music core curriculum.
ENGL 170 - Introduction to the writing of poetry, fiction, and creative nonfiction. Writing, the development of the craft and technique, and analytical reading skills.
MUNM 171 - Exploration of various arts disciplines through readings, lectures, guest presentations, and attendance at local arts events. Examination of creative process and the impact of the arts in the community and in society. Emphasis will be placed on the role the arts play in understanding human diversity.
ETHN 171 - A panoramic analysis, from the pre-Columbian civilizations to the 21st century, focusing on the history  of power and culture in order to understand Latin America today.
HIST 171 - A panoramic analysis, from the pre-Columbian civilizations to the 21st century, focusing on the history  of power and culture in order to understand Latin America today.
CLAS 180 - Literary sources of Greek and Roman myths and their influence.
METR 180 - Concepts and processes of the environment, energy, and climate change and how they are interrelated.
HIST 180 - Introduction to diverse aspects of South, East, and Southeast Asia, with particular attention to the interplay of culture, religion, and society. Focus on India, Japan, South Korea, China, Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar, and Thailand.
RELG 180 - Introduction to diverse aspects of South, East, and Southeast Asia, with particular attention to the interplay of culture, religion, and society. Focus on India, Japan, South Korea, China, Vietnam, Cambodia, Myanmar, and Thailand.
ENGL 180 - General introduction for beginning students to the understanding and appreciation of the principal forms of literature: poetry, drama, and fiction.
FITN 180 - Introduction to fundamental strength and conditioning movement patterns, basic exercise program design, effective communication and cueing, as well as other concepts as they relate to Personal Training and Group Exercise instruction.
SOCI 180 - Treatment of the principal &quot;problem&quot; areas in contemporary society. Analysis of processes of disorganization in society, with attention to contrasting processes by which social structures are formed and perpetuated.
GEOG 181 - Exploration of urgent global environmental issues and their relationships with physical, social, biological, and economic process. Investigation between human activity, wellbeing, and environmental change. Topics include landscape transformation, climate change, environmental health and disease, and water quality.
PSYC 181 - Introduction to concepts and research in the areas of biological, cognitive, developmental, social, and health-related bases of behavior, with emphases on critical thinking, research methods, and integration across areas of psychology.
PSYC 181H - Introduction to concepts and research in the areas of personality, attitudes, emotion, learning, memory, perception, and physiological bases of behavior.
MUCP 183 - Applied studio instruction in music composition.
JGEN 184 - Apply theoretical information and develop practical skills in digital photography and videography to communicate messages using visual and audio tools and techniques.
MUCP 184 - Applied studio instruction in music composition.
AERO 185 - Officership, communication skills, opportunities, and benefits in today's US Air Force. A weekly one and one-half hour Leadership Lab consists of Air Force customs and courtesies, Air Force environment, drill and ceremonies.
AERO 185L - Increasing students' knowledge of Air Force uniform wear, customs, and active duty opportunities.
ENGL 187 - ESL writing course to prepare students for entry into university-level writing courses.
ENGL 188 - ESL speaking and listening course to prepare students for fuller participation in entry-level university courses
ENGR 191 - Topics vary.
BSAD 191 - Topics vary.
MODL 191 - Topics vary.
MATH 191 - Topics vary.
JOMC 192 - Topics vary every term.
ENGR 193 - Introduction to The Complete Engineer competencies with an emphasis on leadership and communication. Establishes what it means to be a Complete Engineer and demonstrates and develops the competencies, including industry mentorship from Kiewit. Skills will include greater self-awareness, understanding the complexities of leadership in today's world, and understanding the dynamics of interpersonal communication.
COMM 194 - Independent reading or research under direction of a faculty member.
JOMC 197 - A professionally oriented lab to learn processes and media fundamentals. Work on one or more teams with real clients, sources, stories and content within the community. A real-world setting and experience to develop skills in content production, social and digital media, and emerging technologies.
ACCT 200 - This course is designed to introduce financial and managerial accounting concepts to students who are not business majors but who will use such information in future roles as investors, owners, managers, employees and /or taxpaying citizens. Because accounting is referred to as `the language of business' a primary objective of this course is to enable you to understand how accounting meets the information needs of various users. The course lays a foundation for understanding and use of accounting concepts, skills and judgments in numerous endeavors, both career and personal.
CASC 200 - Arts &amp; Sciences students will explore the value of the liberal arts degree and the possible career paths to which it relates.  Topics covered include career decision making, self-exploration, transferrable skills, gaining experience, building a resume, and networking.
ECON 200 - Introduction to economic reasoning and methods. Consumer choice, resources, decision making under constraints, supply, demand, markets, economic welfare analysis, measurement, prices, employment, money and interest rates. Economic policy and limitations are evaluated.
MECH 200 - First and Second Laws of Thermodynamics, properties of gases and vapors, and cycles. Sources of energy and its conversion to work.
SOCI 200 - Examination of how gender matters in the social world, with a focus on gender and diversity in the US. Introduction to sociological theories about gender and related research.  Considers how lifelong gender socialization, social institutions, norms, laws, and cultural practices create gendered effects for individuals, communities, and groups in every aspect of life.
WMNS 200 - Examination of how gender matters in the social world, with a focus on gender and diversity in the US. Introduction to sociological theories about gender and related research.  Considers how lifelong gender socialization, social institutions, norms, laws, and cultural practices create gendered effects for individuals, communities, and groups in every aspect of life.
ETHN 200 - Origins, nature, scope, and relevance of research, theory, and social, political, and cultural institutions in African American Studies.
ENGL 200 - The issues, perspectives, and methods of the discipline. The relationships among authors, texts, audiences, and contexts. Practice in imaginative and analytical approaches.
GERO 200 - Introduction to social gerontology and human development in later life; emphasis on important elements of aging, such as socialization, family interaction, retirement, physical and psychological aging, and perceptions of older persons in contemporary society.
GEOL 200 - Crystallography and mineral optics, mineral classes, crystal chemistry, and mineral identification methods. Includes microscope techniques and field methods.
ENGR 200 - Enhance essential professional skills for personal and team success through investigating issues in a global context.  Explore in-demand professional aptitudes (self-awareness, emotional intelligence, teamwork, communication, and workplace interaction expectations).  Through industry/community interaction, explore cultural and business norms and the application of broader perspectives to identify issues/solutions responsive and adaptive to their global context
SOCW 200 - Examines the effects of race, class, and gender on social policy and social injustice. Focuses is on how institutional oppression of racism, classism, and sexism are interconnected and are mutually reinforcing. The consequences of institutionalized oppression are examined at the individual, family, group, organization, community, and societal levels.
JGEN 200 - Introduction to written and oral communication and document design principles and strategies as applied in the sciences and technology. Communications for various audiences and/or purposes and/or situations.
MUNM 200A - A continuation of <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. For non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons; more advanced than <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
JOUR 200A - Fundamentals of reporting, writing and editing for news media in print, digital and broadcast platforms.
MUNM 200B - A continuation of <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. For non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons; more advanced than <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
JOUR 200B - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=JOUR%20200A" title="JOUR&#160;200A" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'JOUR 200A');">JOUR&#160;200A</a>, focusing on more depth in reporting, writing and editing for news media in print, digital and broadcast platforms.
MUNM 200D - A continuation of <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. For non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons; more advanced than <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
MUNM 200E - A continuation of <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. For non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons; more advanced than <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
MUNM 200G - A continuation of <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. For non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons; more advanced than <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
MECH 200H - First and Second Laws of Thermodynamics, properties of gases and vapors, and cycles. Sources of energy and its conversion to work. Honors students will be expected to study beyond the students in the normal sections and do a special project.
MUNM 200J - A continuation of <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. For non-music majors who studied an instrument or voice through high school and wish to continue taking lessons; more advanced than <a href="/search/?P=MUNM%20100" title="MUNM&#160;100" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUNM 100');">MUNM&#160;100</a>. Private or group lessons at instructor's discretion. May not count toward requirements for music major or minor. No preregistration, since majors and minors must be assigned first to the available instructors. Applied music instruction fee of $80 will be charged in addition to tuition for credit hour. Grade only. Maximum of four semesters.
CIVE 201 - Incorporating programming logic into spreadsheet solutions in the context of authentic civil engineering projects; emphasis on integrating professional skills, data analysis and management, and technical skills.  Project based.
DRAW 201 - Drawing with emphasis on perceptual and expressive techniques in a variety of materials.
MLSC 201 - Introduction to replicating successful leadership characteristics through observations during experiential learning exercises. Record characteristics, discuss them in small group settings and use them in subsequent activities. Practice communications skills necessary for leadership roles, especially in military environments.
ACCT 201 - Fundamentals of accounting, reporting, and analysis to understand financial, managerial, and business concepts and practices.
WMNS 201 - Interdisciplinary issues related to sexuality and gender, both historical and contemporary.
GLST 201 - Introduction to interdisciplinary nature of global studies. Focuses on questions such as the connectivity of human populations and their activities across time and space, dynamics of conflict in different regions, and impact of local decisions on global outcomes.
MUED 201 - Issues approach to identifying and analyzing the role and function of the school in American society with specific attention to music education. Orientation to music education as a career; skill development in music teaching; and professional communication via digital portfolio development.
SPED 201 - Introduction to basic concepts related to the education of exceptional learners. Historical factors, legislative statutes, and instructional models.
MUNM 201 - The various roles that music and the other fine and performing arts play in today's society.  The conceptual bases necessary to address selected art disciplines.
PHYS 201 - Seminar/workshop that introduces students to topics in modern physics research in basic and applied areas. Students given an understanding of how their studies relate to current progress in physics and astronomy and to prepare for careers in physics-related disciplines.
CZEC 201 - Authentic listening and reading materials from contemporary media. Development of skills for travel and study in the Czech Republic. Introduction to Czech literature.
FREN 201 - Practice in oral and written expression and introduction to narrative texts. Grammar review and vocabulary expansion are tied to different situations of interaction.
SPAN 201 - Intensive and extensive reading of moderately difficult Spanish texts; thorough review of minimum essentials of Spanish grammar; conversational practice supplemented by drill in pronunciation laboratory.
ARAB 201 - This course focuses upon the foundation of modern standard Arabic: the grammar, syntax, vocabulary, and structure of the language, in addition to supplementary instruction in colloquial Arabic.
CHIN 201 - Intensive development of reading, writing, listening competence, and reading accuracy.
GERM 201 - Intensive and extensive reading of moderately difficult German prose, review of grammar, conversational exercises based on the texts.
JAPN 201 - Reading of moderately difficult Japanese texts. Conversational and writing exercises based on the texts.
COMM 201 - Introduction to social-scientific research methods in communication studies. Location, interpretation, and application of extant communication research.
MUAP 201 - Applied studio instruction in Voice.
UHON 201H - Develop connections with academic and career fields and gain valuable professional preparation experience.
MLSC 201L - Second-year leadership laboratory continues to be the development of confidence, military skills and a sense of teamwork. May be selected to fill leadership positions in the cadet corps. The variety of activities parallel those during the first year of the laboratory.
JAPN 202 - Acquisition of intermediate grammar and developing reading competence.
ACCT 202 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=ACCT%20201" title="ACCT&#160;201" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'ACCT 201');">ACCT&#160;201</a>.
CHME 202 - Application of the principle of conservation of mass and energy in the analysis of steady-state chemical processes. Topics in physical, chemical, and thermal property estimation.
MUAP 202 - Applied studio instruction in Piano
FREN 202 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=FREN%20201" title="FREN&#160;201" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'FREN 201');">FREN&#160;201</a>, with emphasis on reading comprehension. Class discussion in French based on texts.
SPAN 202 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=SPAN%20201" title="SPAN&#160;201" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'SPAN 201');">SPAN&#160;201</a>. Reading of more difficult texts.
GERM 202 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=GERM%20201" title="GERM&#160;201" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'GERM 201');">GERM&#160;201</a>. Reading of more difficult texts. Class discussion and reports on supplementary reading.
MATH 203 - Applications of quantitative reasoning and methods to problems and decision making in the areas of management, statistics, and social choice. Includes networks, critical paths, linear programming, sampling, central tendency, inference, voting methods, power index, game theory, and fair division problems.
FREN 203 - Review of grammar, with an emphasis on conversation.
SPAN 203 - Focuses on the development of oral proficiency so that students may be able to express and discuss their ideas and experiences in clear, direct Spanish. Grammatical constructions and new vocabulary are presented and practiced mainly in conversation.
CRIM 203 - The role of the police in American society. Origins of policing, the nature of police organizations and police work, and patterns of relations between the police and the public.
WMNS 203 - Explore storytelling related to gender, race, and sexuality as a practice of resistance and change.
CHME 204 - Introduction to the concepts of carbon footprints of various human activities, household items and devices, and basic calculations of &quot;carbon accounting&quot;. Discuss the global, regional and local impact of carbon accounting.
FREN 204 - Review of grammar, with an emphasis on writing skills.
SPAN 204 - Focuses on the achievement of communicative proficiency so that students learn to express their own ideas and experiences in a coherent manner. Special emphasis on thematic content, organizational skills, and self-editing.
ASTR 204 - Survey of the sun, the solar system, stellar properties, stellar systems, interstellar matter, galaxies, and cosmology.
THEA 204 - Introduction to the methods and techniques of makeup.
ENGL 205 - Selected readings in the novel and short story, mainly American, British, and European, from 1900 to the present.
BIOS 205 - Series of lab exercises to introduce principles of genetic, molecular and cellular biology. Experiments done using model systems to identify, map and clone genes; analyze gene products and expression; and fractionate cell components.
METR 205 - Conceptual foundations for synoptic and dynamic meteorology. Meteorological data analysis, the dynamics of atmospheric motions, and atmospheric thermodynamics.
RELG 205 - Introduction to the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament in translation. History, culture and religion of Ancient Israel as it is reflected in the biblical books and the archeological record.
SOCI 205 - Introduction to the techniques of collecting and analyzing data and techniques of research reporting. Emphasis on interpretation and evaluation of sociological research.
BIOC 205 - Data analysis and presentation, hypothesis-driven research execution and various types of scientific writing with detailed examination of high impact biochemistry research literature.
SPAN 205 - Spanish communication and professional interactions in healthcare and medicine.
MUAP 205 - Applied studio instruction in Violin
BSEN 206 - Introduction to methods of economic comparisons of engineering alternatives: time value of money, depreciation, taxes, concepts of accounting, activity-based costing, ethical principles, civics and stewardship, and their importance to society.
CONE 206 - Introduction to methods of economic comparisons of engineering alternatives: time value of money, depreciation, taxes, concepts of accounting, activity-based costing, ethical principles, civics and stewardship, and their importance to society.
BIOS 206 - Inheritance and regulation of genes in organisms and populations. Fundamentals of genomics and bioinformatics.
SOCI 206 - Practical exercises in the actual conduct of sociological research projects. Emphasis on training and development of skills, techniques, and methods of data analysis, and interpretation of findings in light of sociological theories.
ENGL 206 - Examines the science fiction genre from its origins in the 18th century to its contemporary expression.  Issues of technological modernity and how these are mediated through literary texts will be introduced.
MUAP 206 - Applied studio instruction in Viola
MUAP 207 - Applied studio instruction in Cello.
BIOS 207 - Introduction to the principles and processes of ecology and evolution. Structure and dynamics of populations and communities; biotic and abiotic interactions; mechanisms of evolutionary change; natural selection; adaptation; and speciation.
MATH 208 - Vectors and surfaces, parametric equations and motion, functions of several variables, partial differentiation, maximum-minimum, Lagrange multipliers, multiple integration, vector fields, path integrals, Green's Theorem, and applications.
MUAP 208 - Applied studio instruction in Double Bass
MATH 208H - Vectors and surfaces, parametric equations and motion, functions of several variables, partial differentiation, maximum-minimum, Lagrange multipliers, multiple integration, vector fields, path integrals, Green's Theorem, and applications.
MUAP 209 - Applied studio instruction in Harp
COMM 209 - Detailed practice in composition and delivery of speeches leading to effective extemporaneous speaking. Critical analysis of contemporary speeches on vital public issues.
SOCI 209 - Examines the social construction of crime and deviance. Deals with defining and measuring crime/crime trends. Introduces historical and contemporary criminological theories. Emphasizes inequality in the risks of and responses to crime and deviance.
COMM 209H - Detailed practice in composition and delivery of speeches leading to effective extemporaneous speaking. Critical analysis of contemporary speeches on vital public issues will culminate in a major research paper.
SPAN 210 - Covers the same material as <a href="/search/?P=SPAN%20201" title="SPAN&#160;201" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'SPAN 201');">SPAN&#160;201</a>-202.
FREN 210 - Covers the same material as <a href="/search/?P=FREN%20201" title="FREN&#160;201" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'FREN 201');">FREN&#160;201</a>-202.
POLS 210 - Introductory survey to the administrative arm of American national, state, and local government. Bureaucracy has become so important to the functioning of the federal system it has been termed &quot;the fourth branch of government.&quot; Bureaucracy's role as a political institution of the first order, not just as an implementer of policy. Bureaucratic power, structure, and democratic control.
COMM 210 - Practice and theory of communication to participate in and lead small group discussion and problem solving.
ENVE 210 - Introduction to material and energy balances on environmental systems involving physical, chemical, and biological processes. Primary focus on single phase systems.
IDES 210 - Introduction to the design, analysis, representation, and communication of interior environments. Studies of the application of design principles as formal space making strategies, understanding the role of design components in interiors, and the spatial systems that are integral to space and place-making
ASCI 210 - Learn about edible and inedible products sourced from animals with a particular emphasis on the production of red meat and how animal-sourced products are utilized in today's society. Content will include humane harvest methods, fresh meat quality, further processing, preservation, consumer relations, poultry and egg production, dairy products, use of animal byproducts across industries, and important current topics.
ARCH 210 - Introduction to architectural design through reflective and projective techniques. Divergent and convergent approaches focus on fundamental ways in which user(s), matter, and environment inform architecture.
LARC 210 - Introductory design studio exploring design principles central to landscape architecture. Three interrelated aspects of design are pursued: 1) the elements of composition and their formal and spatial manipulation, 2) meanings conveyed by formal choices and transformations and 3) response to cultural and environmental forces in the landscape.
MUAP 210 - Applied studio instruction in Trumpet
DANC 211 - The principles of classical ballet technique and vocabulary.
CRIM 211 - Analysis of the structure and function of the criminal court system in the United States, including the roles of prosecutor, defender, judge, jury, and court administrator. Issues confronting the system considered from historical, philosophical, sociological, and psychological perspectives. Ideals of the system compared with actual functioning and court reform proposals.
ECEN 211 - Basic circuit analysis including direct and alternating currents and operational amplifiers. Digital signals and circuits.
MUAP 211 - Applied studio instruction in Horn
PHYS 211 - Calculus-based course intended for students in engineering and the physical sciences. Mechanics, fluids, wave motion, and heat.
HIST 211 - Transition from ancient to Medieval civilization; the so-called Dark Ages; the late Medieval Renaissance and the dawn of the modern era.
MRST 211 - Transition from ancient to Medieval civilization; the so-called Dark Ages; the late Medieval Renaissance and the dawn of the modern era.
FILM 211 - Introductory overview of theories of gender and sexuality in relation to film.
ENGL 211 - Introduction to writers and literary works associated with a particular place that would typically be defined by geographic factors rather than political boundaries and will vary from course to course, but will regularly include the North American Great Plains.
ECON 211 - Introduction to the nature and methods of economics. Economic systems. Measurement and analysis of aggregate variables, such as national income, consumption, saving, investment, international payments, employment, price indices, money supply, and interest rates. Fiscal, monetary, and other policies for macroeconomic stabilization and growth are evaluated.
PHYS 212 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=PHYS%20211" title="PHYS&#160;211" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'PHYS 211');">PHYS&#160;211</a>. Electricity, magnetism, and optics.
ANTH 212 - Introduction to ethnology and its subfields. Standard topics, problems, and theories considered in ethnology, social anthropology, culture and personality, and applied anthropology.
ETHN 212 - Introduction to ethnology and its subfields. Standard topics, problems, and theories considered in ethnology, social anthropology, culture and personality, and applied anthropology.
ENGL 212 - Introduction to variety of works by lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender writers. Significant literary, cultural, social, and historical issues and themes.
WMNS 212 - Introduction to variety of works by lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender writers. Significant literary, cultural, social, and historical issues and themes.
ECON 212 - Continuation of an introduction to economic methods. With emphasis on analysis and evaluation of markets. Includes demand, supply, elasticity, production costs, consumption utility, monopoly, competition, monopolistic competition, oligopoly, allocative and technical efficiency, and income distribution. Analysis applied to resource markets, unions, antitrust laws, agriculture, international trade, and other economic problems and policies.
MUAP 212 - Applied studio instruction in Trombone
PHYS 212H - For course description, see <a href="/search/?P=PHYS%20212" title="PHYS&#160;212" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'PHYS 212');">PHYS&#160;212</a>.
ECON 212H - Continuation of an introduction to economic methods. With emphasis on analysis and evaluation of markets. Includes demand, supply, elasticity, production costs, consumption utility, monopoly, competition, monopolistic competition, oligopoly, allocative and technical efficiency, and income distribution. Analysis applied to resource markets, unions, antitrust laws, agriculture, international trade, and other economic problems and policies.
MUAP 213 - Applied studio instruction in Euphonium
PHYS 213 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=PHYS%20212" title="PHYS&#160;212" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'PHYS 212');">PHYS&#160;212</a>. Relativity, quantum mechanics, atoms, and nuclei.
BIOS 213 - Elementary survey of the basic functional systems of the human body: the muscular, nervous, receptor, circulatory, respiratory, digestive, excretory, endocrine, and reproductive systems.
PHIL 213 - Philosophical study of moral problems in modern medicine, exploring such issues as the allocation of scarce medical resources, patients rights, research on human subjects, abortion, the care of seriously impaired newborns, and socialized medicine and the right to health care.
TMFD 213 - Textile and apparel industry processes. Social, cultural, and economic influences on the industry including entrepreneurship.
BIOS 213L - Laboratory exercises and experiments that complement material covered in <a href="/search/?P=BIOS%20213" title="BIOS&#160;213" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'BIOS 213');">BIOS&#160;213</a>.
BIOS 214 - Introduction to the major organ systems of the human body including skeletal, major muscle, nervous, digestive, circulatory, excretory, and reproductive systems. Anatomical structures as they pertain to clinical anatomy.
MUAP 214 - Applied studio instruction in Tuba
ECEN 215 - Introduction to electrical engineering circuit theory.  Kirchhoff's laws and circuit analysis theorems applied to steady state DC resistive circuits.  Analysis of transient RLC and sinusoidal steady-state circuits.  Modern computer methods employed.
MUAP 215 - Applied studio instruction in Flute.
PLAS 215 - Discovery of the biology of genes and the application of genetics principles to understand the control and inheritance of traits in families and populations. Focus is on animals and plants that are important in medicine, agriculture and nature. Learning emphasis is problem solving via online, instant feedback assessments, group discussion, experimental data analysis and context-based exams.
ENGL 215 - Introduction to English literature written by women, studies in the cultural, social, and/or historical contexts.
WMNS 215 - Introduction to English literature written by women, studies in the cultural, social, and/or historical contexts.
ECON 215 - Introduction to the collection, analysis, and interpretation of statistical data used in economics and business. Probability analysis, sampling, hypothesis testings, analysis of trends and seasonality, correlation, and simple regressions.
COMM 215 - Surveys theories of visual communication to improve critical thinking about images.
ENGL 216 - A study of the historical and cultural development of the genre of children's literature.
ECEN 216 - Steady state power calculations for sinusoidal single-phase and balanced three-phase circuits. Mutual inductance. Frequency response. Introduction to fundamentals of semiconductor theory and their application to p-n junction devices. Kirchhoff's laws and circuit analysis theorems applied to steady state diode circuits. Modern computer methods employed.
MUAP 216 - Applied studio instruction in Oboe
MUAP 217 - Applied studio instruction in Clarinet
ENGL 217 - A study of the historical and cultural development of the genre of young adult (YA) literature.
GEOG 217 - Introduction to theories and methods of Geographic Information Science (GIScience) and Geographic Information Systems (GISystems). Focuses on spatial thinking, analysis skills, and the fundamental knowledge needed to use GIS effectively, accurately, and ethically. Topics include: geodesy, cartography and geovisualization, map projections, geospatial data collection, GPS, spatial data models, spatial databases, and spatial analysis.
ETHN 217 - Overview of sociological theories and research on the experiences of different racial, religious, and ethnic groups. Concepts of race and ethnicity, including their social construction.  Historical and contemporary racial and ethnic relations and patterns of inequality. Intersections of race, social institutions, and social policies.
SOCI 217 - Overview of sociological theories and research on the experiences of different racial, religious, and ethnic groups. Concepts of race and ethnicity, including their social construction.  Historical and contemporary racial and ethnic relations and patterns of inequality. Intersections of race, social institutions, and social policies.
MUAP 218 - Applied studio instruction in Bassoon
HIST 218 - Historical formation of Buddhism. Diversification of Buddhist traditions and institutions. Development of Buddhism in South, East, and Southeast Asia.
RELG 218 - Historical formation of Buddhism. Diversification of Buddhist traditions and institutions. Development of Buddhism in South, East, and Southeast Asia.
STAT 218 - The practical application of statistical thinking to contemporary issues; collection and organization of data; probability distributions; statistical inference; estimation; and hypothesis testing.
ENGL 218 - Examination of important vectors within the relationship between field of psychology and literary writing. Topics include literature and the pre-history of psychology, the place of psychology in literary theory, and recent trends in which literature addresses individual, collective, and generational trauma.
MUAP 219 - Applied studio instruction in Saxophone
BSAD 220 - Principles of effective written business communication. Focus on effective writing strategies used in business disciplines.
ECEN 220 - Basic hardware and software concepts of embedded microprocessor systems and interfacing with other hardware components. Simple circuits are designed and drivers to run them are written. Design and build hardware and write drivers in assembly or C programming languages.
MUAP 220 - Applied studio instruction in Percussion
BSAD 220H - Principles of effective written business communication. Focus on effective writing strategies used in business disciplines.
MATH 221 - First- and second-order methods for ordinary differential equations including: separable, linear, Laplace transforms, linear systems, and some applications.
PHYS 221 - Experiments in mechanics, heat and wave motion.
CONE 221 - Surveying fundamentals and theory related to construction, including building layout, measurement procedures, vertical control, and surveying instrument operation. Measurement of distance, direction, elevation, and location using mechanical and electronic systems. Explain the concepts of surveying and project layout as they apply to construction. Demonstrate the use of various surveying instruments, equipment, technologies, and control on construction project examples.
GRPH 221 - Introduction to the field of visual communications, the use of the tools, materials and methods of the graphic designer.
HIST 221 - Surveys the history of science from the Scientific Revolution of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries to the present. Includes the birth of modern science; the theory of evolution; the revolution in physics; science and religion; and the relations of science and society.
ADPR 221 - Advertising and public relations writing styles and techniques to develop effective, goal-oriented communications designed for diverse audiences, tactics and media. Spans objective news-style writing to digital storytelling, persuasive ad copywriting and promotional direct marketing.
CRIM 221 - History and evolution of the corrections process. Covers all aspects of institutional and community-based corrections.
CHEM 221A - Methods of statistical data evaluation and rigorous treatment of chemical equilibria, including chemical activity and coupled equilibria, will provide a foundation for understanding classical chemical quantitation techniques.
MATH 221H - For course description, see <a href="/search/?P=MATH%20221" title="MATH&#160;221" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MATH 221');">MATH&#160;221</a>.
CHEM 221L - Methods of statistical data evaluation and rigorous treatment of chemical equilibria, including chemical activity and coupled equilibria, will provide a foundation for understanding classical chemical quantitation techniques. Emphasis on laboratory techniques, including gravimetric and volumetric methods.
BSAD 222 - Focuses on career development and planning.  Part of the Professional Enhancement Program (PrEP), a series of classes designed to develop professional, confident and polished students for lifelong career success.
GRPH 222 - Study of methodologies used for creative problem solving.
PHYS 222 - Laboratory experiments in electromagnetism and optics.
HIST 222 - Historical examination of the interrelationship of sport and society from ancient Greece to twentieth-century America.
NAVS 222 - Concepts of naval weapons systems, automatic control systems, and communication systems are explored. Components of the weapon system, including sensors and detection systems, tracking systems, computational systems, launching devices, and projectiles. Once the weapon systems have been defined, they are analyzed solving classic fire control problems and in more modern &quot;total system integration.&quot; Command, control, and intelligence (C4ISR) and the impact that computers play in this area. Student presentations are utilized to help them understand how the theory presented is used in modern naval weapons system.
FITN 222 - Knowledge and understanding necessary to prepare for a Personal Trainer Certification Exam and become an effective personal trainer. Present a client-centered approach to personal training, individualized program design based on each client's unique health, fitness, and performance goals and philosophy for empowering clients to make behavioral changes to improve their health, fitness, and overall quality of life. How to implement concepts regarding fitness evaluations, flexibility and warm ups, exercise technique and program design for resistance training and cardiovascular training for broad clientele demographics.
JOMC 222 - Role of ethical principles and social responsibility and their importance in society and media today. Analysis of local and global human trafficking issues and advancing knowledge and solutions in areas of awareness, prevention, education, and role of media.
PHYS 223 - Experiments in atomic and nuclear physics.
GRPH 223 - Introduction to the practice, history, and theory of typography.
ASTR 224 - Telescopic observations and laboratory experiments relating to observational astronomy. Obtaining digital astronomical images, the analysis of the resulting data and its astrophysical interpretation.
MUAP 224 - Applied studio instruction in Guitar
CNST 225 - Introduction to Building Information Modeling (BIM) concepts and techniques. Explore the use of the Revit Architecture platform to create detailed 3D models of construction projects and other BIM-related topics such as clash detection and point-cloud models.
POLS 225 - Various aspects of Nebraska government and politics. Unicameral Legislature, the governor and executive branch, the courts, political parties in Nebraska politics, political participation, and current issues of concern to Nebraskans.
SOCI 226 - Overview of the sociological study of families. Family and marriage patterns over time. Socialization, economic exchange, and social support functions of family roles. The effect of the economy, public policy, and other social institutions on families.  Emphasis on gender, sexuality, social class, and racial/ethnic diversity in U.S families.
WMNS 226 - Overview of the sociological study of families. Family and marriage patterns over time. Socialization, economic exchange, and social support functions of family roles. The effect of the economy, public policy, and other social institutions on families.  Emphasis on gender, sexuality, social class, and racial/ethnic diversity in U.S families.
BRDC 227 - Theory and use of sound, audio production and vocal performance for electronic media applications. Write correctly and clearly for electronic media. Tools and technologies appropriate for electronic media applications using the college's FM radio station and audio production studios. Basic numerical and statistical concepts to understand audience measurement.
PLAS 227 - Introduction to turfgrasses, their management and use, and to the turfgrass industry.
HIST 228 - Survey from classical antiquity to the present. The education of practitioners, locations of healing, theories of health and disease, and medical practices in the context of social, economic, and political change.
CSCE 230 - Introduction to organization and structure of computer systems. Boolean logic, digital arithmetic, processor organization, machine language programming, input/output, memory organization, system support software, communication, and ethics.
POLS 230 - Roles of political parties and interest groups in government and politics, focusing on their efforts of elections and lobbying.
MECH 230 - Introduction to formalized engineering design processes and methodology, selection of common mechanical components, and practice of teamwork and problem solving in the context of mechanical engineering.
LARC 230 - Relationship between design and implementation through construction processes, detailing as an extension of design, landscape architectural materials, basic structural theory, detailing and structures, and technical specifications as a means of ensuring design intent.
ENGL 230A - Introductory study of a representative sample of Shakespeare's works. Some films of dramatic performances may be shown.
ENGL 231 - Major works by British authors of the Romantic and Victorian periods and of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
CSCE 231 - Introduction to organization, structure, and applications of computer systems.  Boolean Logic, Digital Arithmetic, Processor Organization, C Programming, Machine Language Programming, Input/Output, Memory Organization and Management, Building Embedded System Application.
ECEN 231 - Laboratory accompanying <a href="/search/?P=ECEN%20211" title="ECEN&#160;211" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'ECEN 211');">ECEN&#160;211</a>
PHIL 231 - Beginnings of Greek philosophy: the pre-Socratics and the systems of Plato and Aristotle with emphasis on historical connections and the critical interpretation of texts.
MUAP 231 - Refinement of skills gained in earlier courses with more advanced applications, use of chromatic chords, modulations, score reading, and basic accompanying.
ARCH 231 - Introduction to the concept of structure as integral and essential to architectural design.  Exposure to basic physical principles and structural systems.
ENGL 231H - Intensive study of major works by British authors of the Romantic and Victorian periods and of the twentieth and twenty-first centuries.
ANTH 232 - Introduction to what archaeologists do and what they have learned about humans in the past. Emphasis on methods archaeologists use to study the past and traces the record of human developments up to the rise of cities.
MUAP 232 - Refinement of skills gained in earlier courses with more advanced applications, use of chromatic chords, modulations, score reading, and accompanying.
POLS 232 - Major public issues in American politics. Government spending, civil rights; welfare and health care; poverty; education; urban problems; crime, violence and repression; defense policy; agricultural policy; environment/energy policy.
MUAP 233 - Covers all the components for the piano proficiency examination in one semester, plus additional keyboard skills appropriate for well-prepared keyboard players (including the realization of lead sheets and other advanced piano skills). Intended for BM students in piano performance, and for other undergraduate music majors and minors who can demonstrate sufficient mastery of the piano.
ATHC 235 - Instruction in the first aid and CPR.Theory and practice of conditioning, taping, and rehabilitation of minor injuries
NRES 235 - Introduction to field and laboratory skills used for fisheries and wildlife management emphasizing animal and habitat surveys, capture methods, radio-telemetry, sexing and aging methods, and habitat assessment using independent experiential learning.
CSCE 235 - Survey of elementary discrete mathematics. Elementary graph and tree theories, set theory, relations and functions, propositional and predicate logic, methods of proof, induction, recurrence relations, principles of counting, elementary combinatorics, and asymptotic notations.
ECEN 235 - Laboratory accompanying <a href="/search/?P=ECEN%20215" title="ECEN&#160;215" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'ECEN 215');">ECEN&#160;215</a>
POLS 235 - Basic policy theories and the policy process, paying special attention to key events that create or prevent policy opportunities and problems that arise throughout the policy process. Substantive policy issues used to illustrate the various concepts and process models.
MUAP 236 - Development of the skills and knowledge necessary to play and teach high and low string instruments in heterogeneous strings class settings. Goals include the development of a good working knowledge of solo and ensemble literature for students in school settings (grades 5-12).
ECEN 236 - Laboratory accompanying <a href="/search/?P=ECEN%20216" title="ECEN&#160;216" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'ECEN 216');">ECEN&#160;216</a>
ARCH 240 - Survey of the development of architecture from prehistory to the mid-eighteenth century.
ARCH 241 - Survery of the history and theory of architecture from the mid-eighteenth century to the present day.
CRIM 241 - Deals with the legal aspects of the investigation and arrest processes as well as the rules governing the admissibility of evidence in court.
CNST 241 - Introduction to earthmoving equipment and methods, labor, productivity, and economic aspects of excavation, material transportation, and fill work. Introduction to the financial principles of equipment ownership and operation.
ETHN 241 - History of Native peoples of North America, focusing on peoples of the region that became the United States. Surveys major themes and issues in Native American history from origins to the present day. Includes tribal cultures and politics; responses to and interactions with Europeans and Euroamericans; land loss and the degradation of Native Americans' natural resource bases; &quot;pan-Indian&quot; movements; cultural persistence and revitalization; and tribal economies in the twentieth century.
HIST 241 - History of Native peoples of North America, focusing on peoples of the region that became the United States. Surveys major themes and issues in Native American history from origins to the present day. Includes tribal cultures and politics; responses to and interactions with Europeans and Euroamericans; land loss and the degradation of Native Americans' natural resource bases; &quot;pan-Indian&quot; movements; cultural persistence and revitalization; and tribal economies in the twentieth century.
PRNT 242 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=PRNT%20241" title="PRNT&#160;241" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'PRNT 241');">PRNT&#160;241</a>.
ANTH 242 - Biological anthropology is the study of human and non human primate biological evolution and biocultural variation. This includes genetics, mechanisms of change, growth and development, primate ecology, and the fossil record.
EMAR 242 - Introduction to how humans and non-humans inform systems design for both physical and digital worlds. Principles, foundations, and ethics of meaningful interaction design.
ANTH 242L - Laboratory exercises and analyses that complement material covered in <a href="/search/?P=ANTH%20242" title="ANTH&#160;242" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'ANTH 242');">ANTH&#160;242</a>.
ANTH 243 - Basic principles of forensic anthropology, including osteology, development of a biological profile, decomposition, trauma and forensic archaeology.
HIST 244 - Thematic survey of U.S. history in the nineteenth century including topics such as: slavery, the sectional crisis, the Civil War, Native American displacement, reconstruction, immigration, and the development of modern culture.
ENGL 244 - Representative African American works written since 1865, of various genres, studied in their social and historical contexts.
ETHN 244 - Representative African American works written since 1865, of various genres, studied in their social and historical contexts.
FILM 244 - Samples film representations of people across lines of ethnicity. Topics include identities and inter/intra-relations of power and the interrogation of the socio-cultural, historical, and political dynamics at work within films at the time of production.
HIST 245 - Explores the major issues of the twentieth century: the role of government; the impact of race, class, and gender; immigration; popular culture; and social and political reform movements.
ENGL 245N - Introduction to literature by Native Americans covering early and recent periods.
ETHN 245N - Introduction to literature by Native Americans covering early and recent periods.
THEA 250 - Examination and exploration of the physical, vocal, and emotional demands required of classical acting.
SPMC 250 - Introduction to a variety of writing styles and techniques to develop effective sports-oriented communications for diverse audiences and media.
EMAR 250 - Introduction to the tools and aesthetics of the moving image. Fundamentals of digital cinema cameras, lenses, lighting and editing. Production of experimental and non-sync films.
UGEP 250 - Exploration of an issue to demonstrate global awareness or knowledge of human diversity obtained through participation in a program of coursework completed abroad.
NUTR 250 - Introduction to nutrient function in the body, nutrient chemistry and energy metabolism. Role of nutrients in health and disease.
COMM 250 - Explores the centrality of communication in contemporary, digitally-networked civic life.
SCMA 250 - Organization, analysis and evaluation of data using advanced features of Microsoft Office to solve business problems.
HIST 250 - Introduction to methods used in the research and writing of history.  Developing library skills, finding sources, analyzing documents, compiling bibliographies, and writing reviews.
AHIS 251 - Role of the fine arts in creating national identity. How portraiture, genre, history painting, landscape, sculpture, photography, and folk art produced competing definitions of America. Growth of art institutions and patrons, the development of different audiences and how they established and changed expectations for art and artists.
PANT 251 - Introduction to painting stressing the creative use of form, light, color, and space as bases for expression of observed facts.
CNST 251 - Introduction to construction materials and proper methods of specifying to achieve design and construction goals, safety and inspection, and to meet zoning code and environmental requirements. Physical, mechanical and aesthetic properties of soils, concrete, masonry, metals, plastics and other materials will be studied as they relate to in-service conditions, acceptability, and performance.
EDPS 251 - Fundamental concepts and principles of human development with reference to cognitive and social/emotional development from late childhood to early adulthood. Biosocial forces which affect behavior and development in adolescents as they relate to educational practice.
CHEM 251 - Chemistry of carbon compounds including basic principles of bonding and structure; properties and reactions of alkanes, alkenes, alkynes, alkyl halides; stereochemistry, and spectroscopy.
CRIM 251 - Introduction to the principles, methods and techniques of empirical social research.
EMAR 251 - Introduction to sound and audio as a design element in traditional and emerging media art projects.
CSCE 251 - Introduction to the Unix operating system. Unix file system. Unix tools and utilities. Shell programming.
PANT 252 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=PANT%20251" title="PANT&#160;251" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'PANT 251');">PANT&#160;251</a>.
SOCI 252 - Introduction to the sociological approach to understanding health and medicine.  The relationship between social conditions and physical and mental health.  Differences in health across social groups.  Medical care and health care policies.
ENGL 252 - Introduction to the writing of fiction. Writing, analysis of craft, technique, and reading skills.
CHEM 252 - Properties, synthesis, and reactivity of alcohols, ethers, conjugated systems, aromatic systems, heterocycles, carbonyl and nitrogen compounds, with some emphasis on the organic compounds found in nature.
ANTH 252 - Introduction to complex societies around the world and the role of archaeological heritage in contemporary debates.
CLAS 252 - Introduction to complex societies around the world and the role of archaeological heritage in contemporary debates.
ASCI 252A - Provides an introduction to the equine industry including history and basic biology of the horse, proper care and acceptable management procedures, and current issues.  An overview of basic equine anatomy and physiology will be discussed as it relates to managerial principles associated with proper hoof care, disease prevention, breeding and genetics, nutritional management, reproduction, and animal welfare.
ENGL 253 - Introduction to the writing of poetry. Emphasis on student writing within a context of theory and criticism.
CHEM 253 - Basic techniques of organic chemistry. Structure, identification, physical properties of compounds, molecular modeling, and introduction to the spectroscopic characteristics of organic compounds.
THEA 253 - Beginning development of voice and speech for performance.
ASCI 254 - Basic disciplines and concepts involved in swine production including: industry structure, trends and statistics; production phases and building; genetic improvement; reproduction; nutrition; health and bio-security; nutrient management; marketing and meat quality; and career opportunities in the swine industry.
CHEM 254 - Synthesis of representative organic compounds. Qualitative analysis of organic compounds. Naturally occurring compounds.
ENGL 254 - Extended writing and its uses in and by various communities.
ENGL 254H - Extended writing and its uses in and by various communities.
THEA 255 - Experiential practice in theatrical movement techniques necessary for character development and physical expression.
AECN 256 - Legal aspects of agriculture: taxation, contracts, property rights, buying and selling real estate, condemnation, land use regulations, leases, co-ownership, partnerships, corporations, commercial transactions, credit, liability, insurance, estate planning, water law, and agricultural regulations. A practical exposure to the legal institutions of Nebraska.
MRKT 257 - Provides an introduction to the fundamentals of sales communication including verbal, listening and written skills. Students learn the various components of the selling process, develop a written selling plan, and gain experience in executing each step of the selling process through role-play exercises.
TEAC 259 - Development of understanding related to theories and applications of technology use in K12 classrooms and Speech Language Pathology settings. Guided learning experiences, professional learning networks, human centered design, learning theory, web and mobile applications,  portfolios, and education technology at the intersection of race, gender, and class.
TEAC 259B - Practicum in Instructional Technology is a course aimed at supporting pre-service teachers in their efforts to integrate computers, mobile devices, multimedia, and other technological tools to enhance the teaching and learning process.
MATL 260 - Relation of atomic, molecular, and crystal structure to the physical, mechanical, and chemical properties of metals, alloys, polymers, and ceramics.
BRDC 260 - Writing scripts and preparing related materials for broadcast, cable and online production and presentation. Audience composition, research of topics and adaptation to delivery through multiple media platforms. Awareness of diverse audiences and legal and ethical considerations in preparation of written materials for electronic media.
FINA 260 - Introductory course in the finance area with concentration in personal financial applications. Includes: income and occupation, expenditures, budgeting, consumerism, taxes, consumer credit, banking services, savings and savings instruments, life insurance, social security, annuities, pensions, health insurance and care, automobile, fire, and property insurance, home ownership, investments and securities, mutual funds, and estate planning including wills, trusts, estates, death taxes, and gift taxes.
POLS 260 - Selected current or otherwise important problems in international relations. Content varies but may include such subjects as weapons and security policies, human rights, multinational corporations, ideologies, etc.
SOFT 260 - Advanced data structures and their associated algorithms for solving computational problems. Techniques for systematically specifying, managing, and analyzing software requirements, and for managing software change and working effectively in teams.
ENGL 261 - Major authors, themes, and intellectual trends in American literature from 1865 to the present. Works from the Realist, Modernist, and Contemporary periods.
PHOT 261 - Introduction to digital photographic processes for artists including camera operations, image editing and printing as well as seeing and expressing ideas photographically.
CHEM 261 - Mechanism-based approach to the properties, synthesis, and reactivity of important carbon-based functional groups. Topics include bonding and structure; stereochemistry; and the chemistry of alkenes, alkyl halides, alcohols, thiols, and ethers.
MATL 262 - Engineering behavior of materials with emphasis on macroscopic properties; relationship between these properties, processing history, composition and microstructure. Introduction to the use of metallographic tools used in interpretation.
PSYC 263 - Introduction to the psychological processes involved in pattern recognition, memory, human learning, problem solving, language development, verbal communication, and decision making, as viewed from an information processing standpoint.
CHEM 263 - Lab work in qualitative organic analysis from a mechanistic perspective.
PHOT 263 - Introduction to studio lighting for photography, digital asset management, and post-production, with emphasis on technical and conceptual development.
CHEM 263A - Lab work in qualitative organic analysis from a mechanistic perspective.
MUSC 265 - Chromatic harmony; continued study of modulation; invention and fugue; continued study of form and analysis (sonata, rondo, and concerto).
PHIL 265 - Introduction to the philosophical understanding of religion. Includes a number of views on the nature of God, on the possibility of knowledge of God's existence through either argumentation or religious experience, and on the relation between religion and morality.
MUSC 265A - Intensive drill in skills (ear training, sight singing, and keyboard).
POLS 268 - Variety of global crises and challenges that pose threats to world order. Population growth; scarcities of food, energy, and non-fuel minerals; vulnerability of industrial states to resource scarcities; nuclear proliferation; arms racing; and terrorism.
FILM 269 - Intensive examination of artistic movements and major directors in an important historic period of film. Examples: Russian film of the '20s, the French New Wave, Hollywood in the '30s. Weekly film screenings.
BRDC 269 - Theory and practice of video production, including camera operation, audio control, writing and storyboarding, lighting, editing, and output formats and platforms.
CYAF 270 - Growth and behavior related to the preschool years, ages two through five.
POLS 270 - Provide a solid understanding of the historical and theoretical debates related to security studies within the sub field of international relations.  Traditional and 'new threats' to security as it relates to world order. How nation-states are responding to these threats - namely through multilateral, multi-level strategies based on certain assumptions of governance.
CYAF 270L - Observation of and participation in the care and guidance of preschool children.
DANC 272 - Introduction to the movement and philosophy of Tai Chi (also known as Taijiquan), an ancient Chinese martial art.
PSYC 273 - Introduction to concepts and research to understand relations between bodily processes and behavior, with a focus on human brain structure and function.
MUSC 274 - Introduction to conducting, score analysis, score reading, baton technique, traditional patterns and expressive use of gestures.
ENGL 275 - Nature and function of rhetorical theory as applied to English Studies. Selected important ancient and modern rhetorical theories and is not intended as a general historical survey.
ENGL 276 - The design and development of works of interactive fiction and other types of digital narrative.
MUNM 276G - Through directed listening to compositions chosen from the music literature-one of the great literatures of Western culture-the course attempts to teach the non-musician how to listen to and appreciate the human and cultural values of music as well as to become familiar with historical and stylistic views of music, the significance of music in cultural history, and the understanding of music as aesthetic expression.
ENGL 277 - Introduction to some of the major implications of computer technologies to the humanities; examination of the historical influence of new technologies on how we think of ourselves, both individually and collectively; how we interact socially and politically; how we determine public and private spaces in an increasingly connected world; and how we can use computer technologies to produce, preserve, and study cultural materials.
HIST 277 - Introduction to some of the major implications of computer technologies to the humanities; examination of the historical influence of new technologies on how we think of ourselves, both individually and collectively; how we interact socially and politically; how we determine public and private spaces in an increasingly connected world; and how we can use computer technologies to produce, preserve, and study cultural materials.
ETHN 277 - Constitutional and political development of selected Latin American countries; contemporary problems and institutions. Latin America in world affairs with special reference to the inter-American relations and the United States.
POLS 277 - Constitutional and political development of selected Latin American countries; contemporary problems and institutions. Latin America in world affairs with special reference to the inter-American relations and the United States.
EMAR 280 - Manipulate pixel-based imagery to  properly create, imagine, combine, alter, and repair digital images.
EMAR 282 - Basics of 3D modeling and textures.
MUCP 283 - Applied studio instruction in music composition.
COMM 283 - Understanding the processes and challenges of interpersonal communication across a variety of relationship types. Issues of interpersonal communication in personal and professional relationships.
ADPR 283 - Examine client problems and possible solutions and develop and evaluate strategies and tactics for promotional communications.
MUCP 284 - Applied studio instruction in music composition.
EMAR 284 - Creating moving text and images using compositing and animation software.
AERO 285 - Establishes the foundation for both leadership and team building skills to include listening, followership, and problem solving efficiently. Practice and demonstrate basic verbal and written communication skills along with self-reflection and self assessments.
THEA 285A - Provides practical learning opportunities and skill application for artistic/management/production personnel as part of a theatre arts organization.
THEA 285B - Intensive practical application of principles in technical theatre production in Scenic Construction.
THEA 285E - Intensive practical application of principles in technical theatre production for Lighting and Sound.
AERO 285L - Introduction to cadet leadership training. Practical experience in leadership roles.
THEA 285P - Intensive practical application of principles in technical theatre production for Scenic Art.
THEA 285R - Intensive practical application of principles in technical theatre running crew for a live production.
THEA 285T - Intensive practical application of principles in technical theatre production in Costume Construction.
COMM 286 - An introduction to a variety of communication skills to help achieve maximum effectiveness on the job: verbal and listening skills, oral presentation techniques, small group problem solving/leadership, interviewing, and organizational communication.
POLS 286 - Ways of studying politics and social situations. Rather than asking what political systems &quot;should&quot; do, the primary questions are what political systems actually do and how we know what they do. Whether the application of the scientific process to social questions is valid? Problems in carrying out proper scientific research. The wide variety of techniques that have been applied to analyze politics.
MUNM 287 - Survey of the history of rock music including its antecedents in Rhythm &amp; Blues and Country. Two areas: a musical focus on musical characteristics and evolving musical styles, and a consideration of the sociopolitical impact rock music has had on late 20th Century life.
ARAB 288 - Concepts of love, sexuality and femininity as studied in their historical, religious and sociological contexts.
PSYC 288 - Social factors influencing the values, attitudes, and behavior of the individual, including language, propaganda leadership, and group identifications.
PSYC 289 - Developmental approaches to human behavior from conception to senescence. Theories, methods, and results of research.
GEOG 289 - Explore human environmental interaction on the Great Plains. Samples a variety of Great Plains cultures and time periods to explore past use of the Great Plains environment. Evaluation of attributes and related data critical to the operation of past social-ecological systems with reference to changing climatic/ecological dynamics, human environmental impacts, and the sustainability of various indigenous and western modes of land use on the Great Plains. Investigate knowledge of these processes and how they can be of relevance to contemporary issues of Great Plains land management and resource utilization.
NRES 289 - Explore human environmental interaction on the Great Plains. Samples a variety of Great Plains cultures and time periods to explore past use of the Great Plains environment. Evaluation of attributes and related data critical to the operation of past social-ecological systems with reference to changing climatic/ecological dynamics, human environmental impacts, and the sustainability of various indigenous and western modes of land use on the Great Plains. Investigate knowledge of these processes and how they can be of relevance to contemporary issues of Great Plains land management and resource utilization.
COMM 290 - Intensive research, practice, and application of principles of argumentation and persuasion in intercollegiate debate, public address, and oral interpretation.
UGEP 291 - Interdisciplinary special topics of university-wide interest.
METR 291 - Topics vary.
MODL 291 - Topics vary.
SPMC 291 - Topics vary each term.
CASC 291 - Topics vary. Amount of credit, grade options and topic determined by instructor.
THEA 291Q - Investigation of selected topics in digital arts.
JOMC 292 - Topics vary every term.
PSYC 292 - Topics vary.
PGAM 295 - Cooperative education work in a regularly established internship in the PGAM curriculum.
BIOS 296 - Independent work directed by faculty.
ENGL 296 - Directed reading.
ETHN 296 - Independent research or readings under direction by a faculty member.
GEOL 296 - Independent study under direction of a faculty member.
METR 296 - Independent reading or research under direction of a faculty member.
JOMC 297 - A professionally oriented lab to learn processes and media fundamentals. Work on one or more teams with real clients, sources, stories and content within the community. A real-world setting and experience to develop skills in content production, social and digital media, and emerging technologies.
MUED 297 - Guided participation and/or observations in schools and/or agencies offering programs for children/youth.
EDPS 297 - Guided participation in schools/agencies offering programs for youth. Participating students are provided with introductory experiences working with youth in educational contexts, opportunities for one-on-one instruction and support, and prepared for subsequent advanced practicum experiences. Placements range from after-school academic programs to middle school and high school classrooms.
TEAC 297E - Observation and participation in classrooms that enroll multilingual English language learners. Classrooms may be dual language general education classrooms and/or self-contained English Language Learner (ELL) classrooms.
UHON 298H - Topic varies.
NUTR 299 - Individual projects in research, literature review, or creative production.
BLAW 300 - This course examines the business organization in relationship to government, employee groups and the community. A major theme in the course is the social responsibility of business. Topics of study include ethics, environmental issues, employee rights, government regulation, global management and the U.S. political system as it affects business decision making.
MRKT 300 - Survey of marketing principles for non-business students. Overview of the fundamental terms and concepts in contemporary marketing, introduction to real world marketing strategies and focuses on marketing's role in organizations and businesses.
CRIM 300 - Basic statistics of public sector research and public administration decision making. Data processing techniques as they relate to statistical analysis and on understanding the proper application of statistics.
ENSC 300 - Overview and evaluation of existing energy problems and solutions, covering technological, environmental, economic, business, and political issues.
FINA 300 - Covers the basic principles of Financial Decision Making with an emphasis on time value of money, financial statement analysis, working capital management, capital budgeting and risk management.
IDES 300 - In-depth study of the materials with which an interior designer is concerned: floor coverings, wall coverings, lighting and lighting fixtures, window treatments, and accessories.
MNGT 300 - Designed to be an introduction to the role of managers in various organizational structures and types for students from non-business fields. Explores how the practice of management is relevant to different fields of study or academic disciplines. Provides an analysis of organizations and the management processes of planning, organizing, directing, and controlling. Individual, group, intergroup, and organizational responses to various environments and technologies are studied as well as pertinent techniques for managing human capital.
GEOL 300 - Sedimentary rocks and processes, their descriptive parameters, occurrence, origin, and significance in earth history. Stratified rocks in time and space, and methods of correlating geologic units from different localities.
THEA 300 - Survey of management techniques for the theatre including theoretical and practical application.
JGEN 300 - Interdisciplinary approach to written and oral communications. Application of course work from the major to issues in science and technology. Integrates various perspectives through collaborative learning.
SPAN 300A - A block course for students who grew up speaking Spanish at home in the context of the United States and focusing on advanced reading and writing.
JAPN 301 - Introduction to different speech levels and styles in realistic communicative situations enhancing conversational and writing competencies.
CIVE 301 - Explores the co-disciplinary connections in civil engineering through authentic engineering projects; focus on synergies among fluid dynamics, transportation, and structures; emphasis on integrating professional skills, data analysis, and technical skills. Project based.
MATH 301 - Geometry and measurement. Develop an understanding of geometry as taught in the elementary school.
GERM 301 - Builds German communication skills appropriate for a variety of professional settings, with emphasis on writing and speaking.
GREK 301 - Selections from Greek prose. Review of grammar.
MNGT 301 - Nature of management - who managers are and what they do. Broad overview of best managerial practices. Framework for understanding contextual influences involved in both managing and being managed. Examines the multiple roles held by the manager: planning, organizing, controlling and leading an organization. Focus primarily on for-profit companies but also relevant to other types of organizations (non-profit and public sector).
LATN 301 - Selections from Latin prose.
MLSC 301 - Conduct self-assessments of leadership style, develop a personal fitness regimen, and plan and conduct individual/small unit tactical training, while testing reasoning and problem solving techniques. Direct feedback on leadership abilities.
FREN 301 - Overview of French-language writing from the Middle Ages to the present day.
ACCT 301 - Designed to introduce non-accounting majors to the basics of using accounting information. Covers the practical relationships between business decisions and the financial statements, including forecasting, investment decisions, and tax effects.
MUAP 301 - Applied studio instruction in Voice.
MLSC 301L - Placement in leadership positions within the cadet corps organization, providing a greater challenge while building on the confidence and skills developed during the basic course. Concentration on physical conditioning and the furthering of military skill development particularly with respect to small unit tactics and individual military weapons. Practical exercises in preparation for LDAC and the leadership responsibilities of the final year.
MATH 302 - Using mathematics to model solutions or relationships for realistic problems taken from the middle school curriculum. The mathematics for these models are a mix of algebra, geometry, sequences (dynamical systems, queuing theory), functions (linear, exponential, logarithmic), and logic. Mathematical terminology, concepts and principles. Calculator based lab devices, graphing calculators, and computers as tools to collect data, to focus on concepts and ideas, and to make the mathematics more accessible.
PHIL 302 - Introduction to some main problems, and some central concepts, of metaphysics. Focuses on the nature of being and existence, and on various questions concerning the relations between different kinds of entities: minds and bodies, causes and effects, universals and particulars, etc.
MUAP 302 - Applied studio instruction in Piano
ARAB 303 - Emphasis on development of writing, reading and speaking skills.
FREN 303 - Emphasis on oral expression. Review of difficult concepts of French grammar.
SPAN 303 - Introduction to literary texts and to the practice of reading and conversation for comprehension, interpretation and communication. Students write and present short summaries of texts selected from Spanish and Spanish-American Literary works.
ENGL 303 - Introduction to the historical context, criticism, and interpretation of short stories.
SPAN 304 - Develops writing and speaking skills by concentrating on techniques such as organizing ideas, structuring arguments and conducting bibliographic searches.
JOUR 304 - Explores a variety of digital reporting and storytelling options used to produce journalistic content online.
ECEN 304 - Mathematical modeling of physical systems and signals. Representation of signals in terms of basis functions. Fourier series expansions, Fourier Transforms, Laplace and z-Transforms. Input-output relations, convolution. Transfer functions. System Stability. Poles/zeros and s- and z-plane methods. Applications.
SPAN 305 - Analysis of oral, written and visual genres. Evaluation of contexts, regularities, conventions and forms. Acquisition of critical skills in the identification of basic ideological and formalistic issues within the genres being studied.
CNST 305 - Characteristics and performance of buildings with respect to thermal and psychrometric environment in buildings related to human comfort, heat gain/heat loss, ventilation, natural energy systems and sustainable design principles, and plumbing and life safety systems in the Built environment.
ECEN 305 - Random experiment model, random variables, functions of random variables, and introduction to random processes; statistics and practical data analysis.
MUAP 305 - Applied studio instruction in Violin
ENGL 305A - Readings in the British novel from its beginning to 1900. Examples: works by Defoe, Fielding, Austen, Dickens, Eliot, Hardy.
ECEN 306 - Complex vectors. Maxwell's equations. Uniform plane waves. Wave reflection and transmission at interfaces. Waveguides and resonators. Transmission line principles. Antennas. Topics in waves.
SPAN 306 - Improvement of spoken Spanish and development of ability to understand and analyze a variety of written genres. Speaking in the context of a variety of academic, professional and interpersonal scenarios. Acquisition of analytical skills and refinement of grammar for academic reading and writing.
MUAP 306 - Applied studio instruction in Viola
MUAP 307 - Applied studio instruction in Cello.
JOUR 307 - News reporting using data and analysis. Techniques for analysis and skills for writing complex stories.
CLAS 307 - Life, literature, thought, and institutions of the Christian movement from Jesus to Constantine. A critical, historical approach to the sources in English translation and how they reflect the interaction of Christian, Jew, and pagan in late antiquity. Includes the historical Jesus vis-a-vis the Christ of Faith, the impact of Paul's thought, the formation of Christian dogma, methods of interpreting canonical and extra-canonical Christian literature, the problem of heresy and orthodoxy.
HIST 307 - Life, literature, thought, and institutions of the Christian movement from Jesus to Constantine. A critical, historical approach to the sources in English translation and how they reflect the interaction of Christian, Jew, and pagan in late antiquity. Includes the historical Jesus vis-a-vis the Christ of Faith, the impact of Paul's thought, the formation of Christian dogma, methods of interpreting canonical and extra-canonical Christian literature, the problem of heresy and orthodoxy.
RELG 307 - Life, literature, thought, and institutions of the Christian movement from Jesus to Constantine. A critical, historical approach to the sources in English translation and how they reflect the interaction of Christian, Jew, and pagan in late antiquity. Includes the historical Jesus vis-a-vis the Christ of Faith, the impact of Paul's thought, the formation of Christian dogma, methods of interpreting canonical and extra-canonical Christian literature, the problem of heresy and orthodoxy.
ECEN 307 - Laboratory work on circuits and systems, digital and analog electronic circuits.
GEOG 308 - Introduction to the basic concepts of biogeography, the study of distributions of plants and animals, both past and present.
GEOL 308 - Introduction to the basic concepts of biogeography, the study of distributions of plants and animals, both past and present.
NRES 308 - Introduction to the basic concepts of biogeography, the study of distributions of plants and animals, both past and present.
MUAP 308 - Applied studio instruction in Double Bass
ACCT 308 - Internal accounting as a tool to generate information for managerial planning and control. Conventional and computer problem materials are used to develop understanding of operating and capital budgets, standard costs, incremental concepts, relevant costs, transfer pricing, and responsibility and profit center reports as a means of analysis as well as techniques of measurement.
ACCT 309 - Examination of accounting system concepts, applications, and the process by which they are analyzed, designed, and implemented. Emphasis on management information and computer applications in financial accounting, auditing, and management accounting by means of case study analysis.
SOCI 309 - Historical and contemporary patterns of drug use. Analysis of the antecedents and consequences of various forms of drug abuse. Examination of the types and effectiveness of legal responses to specific classes of drugs including; prohibition, decriminalization, and legalization. Prevention and treatment approaches to drug use.
MUAP 309 - Applied studio instruction in Harp
MATH 309 - Basic set theory; elements of logic and types of proofs; induction; study of relations and functions; and cardinality of sets.
ARCH 310 - Architectural design creating a complex programmatic and spatial organization. Creation/critique of design program; the proposal of plausible structure, material and their expressions; and the exploration of analytical and expressive potentials of representation.
BIOS 310 - Reviews of current literature of general interest; reports of research activities by staff and guest speakers.
CSCE 310 - A review of algorithm analysis, asymptotic notation, and solving recurrence relations.  Advanced data structures and their associated algorithms, heaps, priority queues, hash tables, trees, binary search trees, and graphs.  Algorithmic techniques, divide and conquer, transform and conquer, space-time trade-offs, greedy algorithms, dynamic programming, randomization, and distributed algorithms.  Introduction to computability and NP-completeness.
CIVE 310 - Fluid statics, equations of continuity, momentum, and energy dimensional analysis and dynamic similitude. Applications to: flow meters; fluid pumps and turbines; viscous flow and lubrication; flow in closed conduits and open channels. Two-dimensional potential flow.
MECH 310 - Fluid statics, equations of continuity, momentum, and energy dimensional analysis and dynamic similitude. Applications to: flow meters; fluid pumps and turbines; viscous flow and lubrication; flow in closed conduits and open channels. Two-dimensional potential flow.
IDES 310 - Emphasis on the design process and advancement of problem solving skills related to interior design and the proximate environments; such as analysis, inventory and integration of multiple variables, utilizing data and research to establish meaningful design intentions, strategic programming, and the re-adaptation of old typologies into current and emerging spatial solutions.
MATH 310 - Elementary number theory, including induction, the Fundamental Theorem of Arithmetic, and modular arithmetic. Introduction to rings and fields as natural extension of the integers.  Particular emphasis on the study of polynomials with coefficients in the rational, real, or complex numbers.
LARC 310 - Intermediate studio focused on the integrated relationship between landscape architecture and architecture. Projects focus on development of the land, integrating ecological and social systems at various scales.
MUAP 310 - Applied studio instruction in Trumpet
CSCE 310H - <a href="/search/?P=CSCE%20310H" title="CSCE&#160;310H" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CSCE 310H');">CSCE&#160;310H</a> covers the same topics as <a href="/search/?P=CSCE%20310" title="CSCE&#160;310" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CSCE 310');">CSCE&#160;310</a>, but in greater depth. For course description, see <a href="/search/?P=CSCE%20310" title="CSCE&#160;310" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CSCE 310');">CSCE&#160;310</a>.
CIVE 310H - Fluid statics, equations of continuity, momentum, and energy dimensional analysis and dynamic similitude. Applications to: flow meters; fluid pumps and turbines; viscous flow and lubrication; flow in closed conduits and open channels. Two-dimensional potential flow.
CIVE 310L - Hydraulics experiments and demonstrations. Velocity, pressure and flow measurements; pipe flow, open channel flow; hydraulic structures and machinery, hydrologic and sediment measurements and student projects.
METR 311 - Equations of thermodynamics, momentum, and continuity are derived and applied to atmospheric motion.  Energy conservation, flows, and conversions.
MUAP 311 - Applied studio instruction in Horn
COMM 311 - Introduction to the theories and concepts of intercultural and intergroup communication. Communicative processes associated with social comparison, prejudice and discrimination, and social conflict in various relational and professional contexts.
ETHN 311 - Introduction to the theories and concepts of intercultural and intergroup communication. Communicative processes associated with social comparison, prejudice and discrimination, and social conflict in various relational and professional contexts.
PHYS 311 - Review of vector operations and of the kinematics and dynamics of a particle. Dynamics of a system of particles, motion of rigid bodies, central force problems, collisions, Lagrangian techniques, oscillations, and coupled oscillators.
EMAR 311 - Approaches and techniques to writing the short screenplay including: correct  format, character development, story structure, conflict and revision.  Writing assignments including developmental writing exercises and complete short scripts, with faculty and peer critique.
TEAC 311 - Objectives, scope, content, and organization of the reading curriculum; methods of effective teaching; development, use, and sources of instructional materials.
ECON 311A - Extensions and elaboration of theories of aggregate production, consumption, savings and investment, and international trade and finance. Detailed analyses of aggregate demand and supply and applications to inflation and unemployment. Various models of a market economy's performance, and analyses of monetary and fiscal policies for macroeconomic stabilization and growth.
ECON 311B - Extensions and elaboration of theories of aggregate production, consumption, savings and investment, and international trade and finance. Detailed analyses of aggregate demand and supply and applications to inflation and unemployment. Various models of a market economy's performance, and analyses of monetary and fiscal policies for macroeconomic stabilization and growth.
DANC 312 - Movement vocabulary, concepts, principles of modern dance techniques at the advanced level. Advanced technical, artistic, and contemporary practice of modern dance.
CHME 312 - Computational methods in orthogonal polynomials, numerical integration, matrix operations and ordinary differential equations as they apply to chemical engineering problems such as separations, reactor design, transport operations and control.
ACCT 312 - Federal and state income tax concepts. Includes theory and historical growth of the fundamentals of the federal tax laws and regulations. Emphasis on the practical application of the tax laws in the preparation of the tax returns (for wage earners and sole proprietors) and the need for tax planning.
ENGL 312 - Analysis of a variety of works by lesbian, gay, bisexual, queer, and transgender writers and filmmakers. Significant literary, cultural, social, and historical issues and themes.
BIOS 312 - Microbial cell structure, genetics, metabolic and biosynthetic activity, diversity, ecology and evolution including host-microbe interactions.
TMFD 312 - Drawing garments and the fashion figure. Aesthetic styling and presentation, refining product specifications, and interpretations of current trends. Intermediate application of computer-aided design in flat drawings and visual presentations.
MUAP 312 - Applied studio instruction in Trombone
ECON 312A - Extension and elaboration of the economic theories of the behavior of producers, consumers, and markets. Applications include analyses of taxation, rationing and other government policies, price discrimination, cartels, unions, and international markets.
ECON 312B - Extension and elaboration of the economic theories of the behavior of producers, consumers, and markets. Applications include analyses of taxation, rationing and other government policies, price discrimination, cartels, unions, and international markets.
MUAP 313 - Applied studio instruction in Euphonium
ARAB 313 - Examination of how different Muslim theologians and scholars (classical and modern) variably deal with major theological dilemmas like: God's justice, the problem of evil and suffering, the pain and suffering of animals, the pain and suffering of children, pluralism, gender egalitarianism, the rights of the non-believing other, the world's beginning, end and what is in between
ACCT 313 - Analysis and interpretation of financial and operating statements; net income concepts, statements from incomplete records; theory and practice relating to cash flow; and the investment in tangible and intangible assets.
ETHN 313 - Examination of Latin American literature and culture since the 15th century with a focus on the issues of race and empire.
SPAN 313 - Examination of Latin American literature and culture since the 15th century with a focus on the issues of race and empire.
TEAC 313 - Theory and practice of teaching the language arts in the elementary school. Selection, construction, and use of instructional materials for and with elementary children.
AHIS 314 - Art and archaeology of ancient Greece from the Bronze Age through the Hellenistic period.
CLAS 314 - Art and archaeology of ancient Greece from the Bronze Age through the Hellenistic period.
ACCT 314 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=ACCT%20313" title="ACCT&#160;313" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'ACCT 313');">ACCT&#160;313</a> with emphasis on contemporary accounting theory and practice regarding long-term liabilities, corporate equities, and problem areas under study by professional accounting organizations. Analysis of financial statements and the statements of cash flow stressed and related to current controversial topics.
MATH 314 - Fundamental concepts of linear algebra, including properties of matrix arithmetic, systems of linearequations, vector spaces, inner products, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and diagonalization.
BIOS 314 - Traditional microbiology techniques without recombinant DNA methods.
MUAP 314 - Applied studio instruction in Tuba
MUAP 315 - Applied studio instruction in Flute.
MATH 315 - Fundamental concepts of linear algebra, including properties of matrix arithmetic, systems of linear equations, vector spaces, inner products, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and diagonalization, with emphasis in data science applications.
ENGL 315B - Relation between women's roles and popular images in the media, including romances, television shows, science fiction, and magazines, with attention to their historical development.
WMNS 315B - Relation between women's roles and popular images in the media, including romances, television shows, science fiction, and magazines, with attention to their historical development.
ECEN 316 - Kirchhoff's laws and circuit analysis theorems applied to steady state transistor circuits.  Frequency response of filters and amplifiers.  Basic power amplifier types.  Advanced operational amplifier circuits. Introduction to the fundamentals of semiconductor theory and their application to p-n junction and field devices.
MUAP 316 - Applied studio instruction in Oboe
CYAF 316A - Concentrates on language and literacy acquisition in young children, instructional strategies, curriculum tools, and assessment practices in components of the language arts - reading, writing, listening, speaking. Emphasizes literature analyses and the natural integration of literacy across the curriculum.
MUAP 317 - Applied studio instruction in Clarinet
ATHC 317 - Theory and practice of coaching track including strategy, rules, and training procedures.
SPAN 317 - Introduction to linguistic analysis as pertinent to the description and explanation of Spanish grammatical structure. Both theoretical and practical.
TEAC 317 - Pedagogical, linguistic, and cultural issues in the education of multilingual learners in elementary school classrooms.
HIST 317 - Investigation of the Roman imperial government from Augustus to Justinian, focused on the economy, state religion and the emergence of Christianity, the army, family and social classes, the division between the Greek East and Latin West, the Germanic invasions, and the establishment of the Byzantine Empire. Failure of the ancient world to solve its problems, leading to the end of classical civilization.
JOMC 317 - As a popular and constantly growing form of media, video games have become entrenched within society as art, entertainment, tool, and cause for concern. As with any new medium, video games have brought with them new cultural conversation about their influence on players and society. Examines video games based on scientific evidence in order to understand and address the dominant, current conversations about video games.   Topics include game design (e.g., rewards, motivation, narrative), game effects (e.g., violence, immersion, learning, addiction), and behavioral design using the latest social scientific research available.  Focus is on understanding and interpretation of primary research articles and designing research projects. Covers current debates and trends concerning video game design, use, and effects.
MUAP 318 - Applied studio instruction in Bassoon
CONE 319 - Characteristics, capabilities, and selection of equipment and methods used in the building construction industry.   Estimating job production, equipment production rates, machine operating costs, earth-moving equipment, hoisting equipment, operations analysis, and use of various other construction and methods and equipment.
MUAP 319 - Applied studio instruction in Saxophone
SPAN 319 - Description of the Spanish sound system: articulatory and acoustic phonetics, variation, oral practice.
ATHC 320 - Theory and practice of coaching soccer. Rules, organization of practice and matches, health and safety considerations, analysis of offensive and defensive skills and strategies.
CSCE 320 - Practical experience on how to model data through existing techniques including object-oriented and relational models. These models can then be used at the center of systems to promote efficient and effective data processing and analysis.
EDPS 320 - Introduction to positive psychology. Learn to identify personal strengths and assets that lead to flourishing as human beings; Explore major topics of positive psychology that lead to happiness and well-being.
MUAP 320 - Applied studio instruction in Percussion
SOCI 320 - Social, cultural, political, and economic aspects of sport as a social institution. Gender, race, and social class issues related to sport.
SPAN 321 - Examination of important topics and issues in the history of Spanish culture and society.
MECH 321 - An applications-oriented course for formulating and solving engineering statistical problems.  Includes Descriptive statistics, probability distributions, variability, sampling, confidence intervals, tests of significance, basics of statistical process control, and design of experiments.
NAVS 321 - History of warfare and its evolution from the beginning of recorded history to the present.
ENTR 321 - Introduction to entrepreneurship management/marketing. Provides an 'insider's view' of entrepreneurial creativity, innovation, and value creation. First-hand accounts from personal experiences in creating new products, services, and ideas. Insight into real-world marketing creativity, leadership applications, research and development, market analysis, feasibility study, and potential careers in creativity and related fields. Involves the investigation of markets, both for profit and not-for-profit.
GRPH 321 - Emphasis on the creation of meaning through visual form and the responsibility of visual communicators as authors of the creative process.
GERM 321 - In-depth study of German culture and its relation to civilization throughout time.
ECON 321 - Intermediate survey of international trade and factor movements; balance of payments; commercial policy; economic integration; international monetary system and institutions; exchange rates; and open economy macroeconomics.
BSEN 321 - Introduction to principles of environmental engineering including water quality, atmospheric quality, pollution prevention, and solid and hazardous wastes engineering. Design of water, air, and waste management systems.
CIVE 321 - Introduction to principles of environmental engineering including water quality, atmospheric quality, pollution prevention, and solid and hazardous wastes engineering. Design of water, air, and waste management systems.
ENTR 321B - Introduction to entrepreneurship management/marketing. Provides an 'insider's view' of entrepreneurial creativity, innovation, and value creation. First-hand accounts from personal experiences in creating new products, services, and ideas. Insight into real-world marketing creativity, leadership applications, research and development, market analysis, feasibility study, and potential careers in creativity and related fields. Involves the investigation of markets, both for profit and not-for-profit.
BSEN 321H - Introduction to principles of environmental engineering including water quality, atmospheric quality, pollution prevention, and solid and hazardous wastes engineering. Design of water, air, and waste management systems.
CIVE 321H - Introduction to principles of environmental engineering including water quality, atmospheric quality, pollution prevention, and solid and hazardous wastes engineering. Design of water, air, and waste management systems.
BSEN 321L - Environmental engineering experiments, demonstrations, field trips, and projects. Experiments include the measurement and determination of environmental quality parameters such as solids, dissolved oxygen, biochemical and chemical oxygen demand, and alkalinity.
CIVE 321L - Environmental engineering experiments, demonstrations, field trips, and projects. Experiments include the measurement and determination of environmental quality parameters such as solids, dissolved oxygen, biochemical and chemical oxygen demand, and alkalinity.
ENVE 322 - Introduction to the basics of microbes in the environment, including basic microbiological concepts, microbial environment, detection/enumeration/identification of microbes, microbial interactions with environment, microbial remediation of pollutants, waterborne pathogens, and wastewater treatment and disinfection.
ENTR 322 - The opportunities and challenges that are distinctive to businesses owned and operated by members of a family. Shared governance, leadership development, succession, and family-business tensions.
NAVS 322 - Principles essential for an understanding of and a working capability in both safe navigation and decision making. Comprised of a detailed and applied analysis of relative motion, ship handling, and &quot;rules of the sea.
CSCE 322 - List-processing, string-processing, and other types of high-level programming languages. Fundamental concepts of data types, control structures, operations, and programming environments of various programming languages. Analysis, formal specification, and comparison of language features.
CHME 323 - Application to multi-component  systems; thermodynamics, phase equilibria, chemical reaction equilibria, and process analysis.
ADPR 323 - The core of any great advertisement is its concept. This course is for copywriters to find that big idea then execute it by developing copy that effectively promotes the brand. Copywriters will have to write long copy, short copy, scripts for television and radio, and copy for interactive media.
METR 323 - Physical principles that provide the foundation for meteorology.  Absorption, scattering,  and transmission of radiation in the atmosphere, atmospheric optics, atmospheric electricity, and lightning.
MUAP 324 - Applied studio instruction in Guitar
GRPH 324 - Instruction in publication models such as digital editorial design, the modern book, magazine design, book cover design and the history of bookmaking.
HIST 324 - The outbreak and development of the Cold War to its conclusion in 1989. Origins, the nuclear arms race, and the Cold War in a divided Europe.
MATH 325 - An introduction to mathematical reasoning, construction of proofs, and careful mathematical writing in the context of continuous mathematics and calculus. Topics may include the real number system, limits and continuity, the derivative, integration, and compactness in terms of the real number system.
GRPH 325 - Introduction to the fundamental concepts of user-centered design for web, tablet, mobile devices and screen-based media.
MECH 325 - Concept of stress and strain considering axial, torsional, and bending forces. Shear and moments. Introduction to combined stresses and column theory.
AECN 325 - Operation and use of agricultural commodity markets and institutions as applied to enterprise and firm risk management. Cash; futures and futures option markets; basis; hedging; price discovery; fundamental analysis; and risk management strategies.
MRKT 325 - Operation and use of agricultural commodity markets and institutions as applied to enterprise and firm risk management. Cash; futures and futures option markets; basis; hedging; price discovery; fundamental analysis; and risk management strategies.
MECH 325H - Introduction to the mechanics of elastic bodies. Concepts of stress and strain. Extension, bending, and torsion. Shear and moment diagrams. Principal stresses. Deflection of statically determinate and indeterminate beams. Buckling of columns. Special advanced topics.
JOUR 326 - The importance of good sports reporting through clear writing and its importance to readers; the principles of different types of sports stories; how to think critically about sports media; and how the fundamentals of good reporting and writing apply to sports.
SPMC 326 - The importance of good sports reporting through clear writing and its importance to readers; the principles of different types of sports stories; how to think critically about sports media; and how the fundamentals of good reporting and writing apply to sports.
ECEN 327 - Laboratory work on discrete systems.
ARCH 327 - Introduction to parametric and related basic computational concepts for design.  Explorations in specific parametric modeling software techniques.
ADPR 329 - Learn agency processes and business fundamentals. Work as junior member of one or more teams to conduct research and evaluate the findings, develop and present integrated marketing communications strategy and creative materials for a multimedia advertising and public relations campaign needed by a client.
BRDC 329 - Produce edited video content to meet client needs for student-run ad agency known as Jacht Ad Lab.
ETHN 330 - Introduction to the historical, sociological, and philosophical foundations of multicultural education. Examines the increasing cultural diversity of the United States and introduces multicultural education as a concept. Explores awareness and attitudes toward diversity, cultural knowledge, multicultural instructional practices, and curricular resources along with diversity issues impacting PK-12 schooling. Models and reinforces effective teaching and learning strategies while developing reflective teachers for diverse populations.
TEAC 330 - Introduction to the historical, sociological, and philosophical foundations of multicultural education. Examines the increasing cultural diversity of the United States and introduces multicultural education as a concept. Explores awareness and attitudes toward diversity, cultural knowledge, multicultural instructional practices, and curricular resources along with diversity issues impacting PK-12 schooling. Models and reinforces effective teaching and learning strategies while developing reflective teachers for diverse populations.
PSYC 330 - Survey of theory and research on the psychological aspects of ethnicity and racism, gender, sexual orientation, including biological, social, and cultural influences. Causes and nature of prejudice in US society towards minorities and women. Research methods for key topics with these identified groups.
LARC 330 - Investigation and application of landscape architectural design analysis, process and technology to landscape utility/circulation systems, structures, site layout, construction observation and implementation.
EMAR 330 - Examination of the business and intellectual property practices utilized in the contemporary entertainment, arts, and media industries.  Development of student portfolio and personal marketing as preparation to enter these industries.
CRIM 331 - The means by which society attempts to use criminal law to prevent harm to society. Acts which are declared criminal and the punishment prescribed for committing those acts. Philosophies and rationales that have shaped current day substantive criminal law. English Common Law and the historic evolution of substantive criminal law from its early origins.
CHME 331 - Phase equilibrium and mass and energy balances applied to staged mass transfer operations.
EMAR 331 - First semester of a year-long, faculty guided exploration of a topic or theme via creation of wide-ranging emerging media projects.
AERO 331 - Communications skills, leadership, quality initiatives, and human relations. Requires cadet research and participation in the instructional process.
SCMA 331 - Analytical management techniques for: ascertaining demand for the organization's goods and services; justifying and acquiring the necessary resources; and planning and controlling the transformation of resources into goods and services. Application in both large and small organizations, private and public enterprise, service, and manufacturing organizations.
TEAC 331 - Questions of educational purpose and the complex relationship between school and society. Brings disciplinary resources to bear for developing interpretive, normative, and critical perspectives on education, inside and outside of schools.
SPAN 331 - Latin American culture, with focus on war conflicts and human rights.
AERO 331L - Practical application of the principles of leadership in the operation and administration of the cadet wing.
ENGL 332 - Intensive study of the works of an author or small group of authors, usually in historical and biographical context.
POLS 332 - Examines how the impacts of climate change are evaluated and used to motivate policy; analyzes proposals and policies aimed at mitigating climate change at both the federal and the international level; and identifies stakeholders and assesses their impacts on climate change dialogue and policy.
EMAR 332 - Second semester of a year-long, faculty guided exploration of a topic or theme via creation of wide-ranging emerging media projects.
CERM 332 - Intermediate level work in ceramics focused on hand-building sculptural forms using low temperature materials.
CHME 332 - Macroscopic and microscopic phenomena in fluid mechanics applied to chemical processes.  Basic conservation laws, flow kinematics, laminar flow, non-viscous and viscous flow of incompressible fluids, and boundary layer theory.
SOCI 333 - Practical experience in analyzing public opinion data and writing about the results for a range of audiences. Review and discuss work conducted by leading research and policy centers. Design, plan, and carry out research projects, reporting results in policy-oriented briefs.
ADPR 333 - Graphics and design of advertising. Principles and techniques of typography, layout and design, computer graphics, and production methods. Develop strategies and design ads for various media using industry-standard graphic design programs.
ARCH 333 - Characteristics and performance of buildings with respect to thermal and psychrometric environment in buildings related to human comfort, heat gain/heat loss, ventilation, natural energy systems and sustainable design principles, and plumbing and life safety systems in the Built environment.
BSAD 333 - Focuses on internship/job search strategies. Part of the Professional Enhancement Program (PrEP), a series of classes designed to develop professional, confident and polished students for lifelong career success.
COMM 333 - Examination of the speeches and messages of the American presidents throughout history. Focus on presidents at war, presidents dispensing the duties of the office, and presidents in political crisis.
IDES 334 - Architectural lighting and acoustical systems of buildings for non-engineers. Fundamentals of light and vision, lighting equipment, requirements for building lighting, fundamentals of sound and hearing, room acoustics, noise control, and basic design methods for both architectural lighting and acoustics.
CRIM 335 - General survey of the nature of causes of crime and efforts of the criminal justice system to predict, prevent, modify, and correct this behavior.
SCMA 335 - Quantitative decision making tools for business applications. Development of optimization models for applications in operations, transportation, marketing, and finance.
HIST 335 - Analysis of the politics of eighteenth-century anti-imperalism and colonialism and of the impact of force and ideology on social and political institutions as well as economic patterns.
THEA 335 - Theatre from Ancient Greece through Elizabethan period.
MLSC 336 - Grants academic credit for participation at LDAC, Ft. Lewis, Washington. Practical application of organizational management, teaching techniques, small group discussion, interpersonal communications, and the decision-making process. First aid, survival training, and physical conditioning techniques.
HIST 336 - Image of the madwoman throughout European and American history. Emphasis on how women on the margins have been labelled in different periods as saintly, as witches, or as insane.
MRST 336 - Image of the madwoman throughout European and American history. Emphasis on how women on the margins have been labelled in different periods as saintly, as witches, or as insane.
WMNS 336 - Image of the madwoman throughout European and American history. Emphasis on how women on the margins have been labelled in different periods as saintly, as witches, or as insane.
BIOS 337 - Provides a broad overview of bioinformatics. Shows how bioinformatics can help solving problems in biological research. Covered topics: biological databases, molecular biology tools, sequence comparison methods, phylogenetic inference, and molecular graphics.
ALEC 337 - A structured professional and personal leadership developmental experience by providing planning, facilitation, instruction, and evaluation assistance in leadership &amp; communication courses.
CRIM 337 - How delinquents and juveniles in need of supervision are handled within the juvenile justice system. The nature and extent of delinquent behavior status offenses, child abuse and neglect; theories of delinquency and their implications for intervention; cultural and social factors related to delinquency; as well as the philosophy by and functioning of the juvenile justice system.
FINA 338 - Identification and management of risk at the individual and corporate level. The risk management process and tools for risk management. Different personal insurance policies and corporate risk management methods and their applications. Analysis of value creation of corporate risk management.
POLS 338 - Survey of women as political actors: participation in political life, barriers to participation, political attitudes, issues of special concern to women, and issues of particular concern to women of color.
WMNS 338 - Survey of women as political actors: participation in political life, barriers to participation, political attitudes, issues of special concern to women, and issues of particular concern to women of color.
CRIM 339 - Women's experiences as victims of crime, as offenders, as defendants, and as criminal justice professionals.
MUDC 341 - Standard choral works.
MUEN 341 - Standard choral works.
PRNT 341 - Intaglio, lithography, and other graphic processes.
MRKT 341 - The marketing system, its relations with the socioeconomic system, and the influences of each upon the other. Evolution and present structure of marketing institutions and processes. Customer attributes and behavioral characteristics, and how a marketing manager responds to these in the design of marketing strategies, using research, product development, pricing, distribution structure, and promotion.
CIVE 341 - Introduction to the analysis of structural systems. Analyses of determinate and indeterminate trusses, beams, and frames.
ENGL 341 - Introduction to the literary analysis of the Hebrew and Christian Scriptures with emphasis on their influence on British and American literature.
PRNT 342 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=PRNT%20341" title="PRNT&#160;341" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'PRNT 341');">PRNT&#160;341</a>.
MECH 342 - Analysis of the motions of linkage and cam mechanisms. Methods of design of linkage and cam mechanisms. Gear theory. Analysis and design of ordinary and planetary gear trains. Determination of static and dynamic forces in machines. Balancing of machines. Flywheel design. Dynamics of cam mechanisms. Vibration of machines.
CIVE 342 - Introduction to structural engineering design philosophy, steel and concrete design criteria, and procedures for trusses, simple beams, continuous beams, and frames. Introduction to structural experiments and software used in structural analysis and design.
EMAR 343 - Exercise artistic processes within a game engine and while using real-time rendering. Focuses on the application of performance using motion capture and body data as the primary input for motion-based programming such as avatar control, sound, lighting, and visual effects as body driven outputs.
MUED 343 - Instruction and guided practice in teaching music composition and production at the elementary and secondary level. Writing for traditional as well as non-traditional instrumentation. Instructional design, assessment, pedagogy, and technology.
MUDC 343 - Tenor and bass choral literature chosen from folk songs, spirituals, Broadway and Cornhusker favorites.
MUEN 343 - Tenor and bass choral literature chosen from folk songs, spirituals, Broadway and Cornhusker favorites.
MUED 344 - Skills, knowledge, methods, and materials needed for teaching in the elementary and secondary general music setting.
ENGL 344B - Representative works by Black women, composed in various genres, studied in their social and historical contexts.  May not be offered every year.
MUEN 344L - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 344M - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 344P - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 344U - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 344W - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 344Y - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 344Z - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
POLS 345 - Role of courts, judges, and lawyers in the American legal system and political process. Covers all federal and state courts but emphasizes the US Supreme Court.
MRKT 345 - Introduction to methods and principles of investigation and analysis used in making marketing decisions, from product development to channel decisions, to advertising decisions. Planning studies, proposing studies, conducting data gathering, analyzing and interpreting data, reporting results.
MUDC 345 - Repertoire from the choral literature of the Renaissance through contemporary periods.
MUEN 345 - Repertoire from the choral literature of the Renaissance through contemporary periods.
SOCI 346 - Role of humans in the ecosystem, especially the interaction of human societies with the natural environment, including other species and other human societies. Theories of the sociocultural causes of environmentally-related problems and the policies designed to deal with these problems.
MRKT 346 - Basic concepts used in analyzing marketing channels, identifies the issues of designing sound channels, the issues of managing them effectively, and evaluating their performance.
SCMA 346 - Basic concepts used in analyzing marketing channels, identifies the issues of designing sound channels, the issues of managing them effectively, and evaluating their performance.
JOUR 346 - Create and present news and information of particular interest to Lincoln's growing refugee communities. The stories students report will be presented on the Nebraska Mosaic website (www.nemosaic.org), and they may also be re-purposed as part of printed newsletters or video projects distributed on DVD.
MUDC 346 - Soprano and alto choral literature.
MUEN 346 - Soprano and alto choral literature.
ECEN 347 - Lab work on electromagnetics, fields and waves, solid state devices and control systems.
MRKT 347 - Role of communication in the marketing process. Integration of advertising, personal selling, sales promotion, packaging, public relations, as well as their social, economic, and legal impact. Emphasis on influence of marketing communication on consumer information processing and decision making processes and determination and evaluation of marketing communication opportunities, objectives, messages, and effort.
MUDC 347 - Rehearsal and performance of major orchestral works of the eighteenth though the twenty-first centuries.
MUEN 347 - Rehearsal and performance of major orchestral works of the eighteenth though the twenty-first centuries.
HIST 348 - Emphasis on American leadership in world affairs in the twentieth century; US relations with the Far East and Latin America; the breakdown of neutrality in two world wars; the search for collective security.
JOUR 348 - An inside look at the news reporting business by hearing each week from working journalists at the Omaha World-Herald.
MUDC 349 - Select vocal ensemble specializing in the performance of vocal chamber music ranging from early music to contemporary literature.
MUEN 349 - Select vocal ensemble specializing in the performance of vocal chamber music ranging from early music to contemporary literature.
THEA 350 - Advanced skills in scene study with an emphasis on the unique demands required in material from the realism and hyper-realism genres.
EDPS 350 - Introduction to developing basic helping skills that can help emerging professionals working in human services. Develop an understanding of communication processes, develop helping skills, and gain an awareness of self in relation to acting as a helper. Learn about theories, techniques, and research regarding effective helping skills and human behavior, develop and refine helping skills in practice with peers, and explore how culture and sociocultural factors play a role in helping others.
SCMA 350 - Data and information as important resources to be managed in modern organizations. Development of quantitative analytical skills and presentation in business decision making. Basic information system concepts with primary focus on data analysis and related business decisions.
MUDC 350 - Rehearsal and performance of literature for small string orchestra.
MUEN 350 - Rehearsal and performance of literature for small string orchestra.
UGEP 350 - Engage in hands-on, full-time work experiences related to their major or career goal.
ECEN 350 - For Cooperatives primarily technical in nature lasting 4.5 months or greater. Weekly communication and/or final report required. Must be taken during or after the semester in which the Co-op occurs.
MECH 350 - Unified treatment of the dynamics and control of engineering systems. Emphasis on physical aspects, formulation of mathematical models, application of various mathematical methods, and interpretation of results in terms of the synthesis and analysis of real systems.
POLS 350 - A consideration of special issues in the study of biology, psychology, and politics, including emotions, behavioral genetics, neuroimaging, decision-making, and research on human subjects.
MRKT 350 - Introduction to analytical methods of marketing analysis for marketing decisions using data-based cases, including choice models, mapping methods, clustering and mixture regression models, conjoint analysis, sales response models, and data visualization. Applications are in the areas of customer value assessment, segmentation, targeting, brand positioning, new product development, and resource allocation.
ADPR 350 - Focus on strategic public relations planning process and explore many of the specialty practice areas related to PR. Apply strategic principles to solve public relations problems.
GLST 350 - Current and historical perspectives on forced migration with special attention to refugees, displaced persons, immigrants, and migrants.
HRHA 350 - Current and historical perspectives on forced migration with special attention to refugees, displaced persons, immigrants, and migrants.
PSYC 350 - Presentation of basic designs, methods, and data analysis techniques employed in psychological and behavioral research. Critical review of existing research, development of empirical hypotheses, design of research to test those hypotheses, statistical analysis and interpretation, and presentation of results. Create, perform, and present an individual research project.
SPMC 350 - Using brainpower and software to understand and analyze raw data related to sports.
MUDC 351 - Performance of Broadway and other contemporary repertoire.
MUEN 351 - Performance of Broadway and other contemporary repertoire.
PANT 351 - From head, life, still life, and landscape; creative use of form, light, color, and space as bases for expression of observed facts.
CSCE 351 - An introduction to management of computing resources, including CPUs, shared memory, I/O devices, address spaces, and threads of execution, with a focus on implementation.
MUDC 352 - Quartets, trios, duos, and miscellaneous chamber groups organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble. Off-campus performances as approved.
MUEN 352 - Quartets, trios, duos, and miscellaneous chamber groups organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble. Off-campus performances as approved.
SOCI 352 - Examines a variety of religions around the world, emphasizing interaction between people from diverse religious backgrounds in an increasingly multicultural and globally interconnected world. Integrates the study of global religious diversity into Sociology by applying sociological theories to the course topic.
PANT 352 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=PANT%20351" title="PANT&#160;351" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'PANT 351');">PANT&#160;351</a>.
ENGL 352 - Study and practice of the writing of fiction for intermediate students with previous fiction writing experience.
THEA 353 - Voice production techniques supporting material that calls for vocal extremes.
MUDC 353A - Jazz instrumental and/or vocal ensembles of standard instrumentation and/or voicing.
MUEN 353A - Jazz instrumental and/or vocal ensembles of standard instrumentation and/or voicing.
MUDC 353B - Jazz instrumental and/or vocal ensembles of standard instrumentation and/or voicing.
MUEN 353B - Jazz instrumental and/or vocal ensembles of standard instrumentation and/or voicing.
MUDC 353E - Jazz instrumental and/or vocal ensembles of standard instrumentation and/or voicing.
MUEN 353E - Jazz instrumental and/or vocal ensembles of standard instrumentation and/or voicing.
COMM 354 - Overview of communication research and practice in various care contexts: client/provider interactions, provider/provider communication, communication in health care organizations, mediated messages in the marketing and promotion of health information, consumer advocacy, politics of health care.
EMAR 354 - Advanced application of  lighting concepts, technology, and techniques.
ENGL 354 - Extended practice in writing through the study of literacy--situating students' own literacy histories, exploring larger public debates about literacy, and researching the relationships between language, power, identity, and authority.
ASCI 354E - Effective employee management in swine production units. Assist students in understanding the principles, policies, and practices related to procurement, development, maintenance, and utilization of employees.
HIST 355 - Surveys the major developments in domestic politics, in foreign affairs, and the economic, social, and cultural spheres from the end of World War II to the present.
SOCI 355 - Introduction to sociological theories written by key classical and contemporary social theorists. Emphasis on how sociologists try to understand and make predictions about the social world.  Analysis of a range of issues, such as how social contexts shape people's identities, how people form connections with one another, and inequalities related to race, class, and gender.
ENGL 357 - Recent research on literacy development and writing processes. Extended reflection and some application of theory to students' experiences with writing instruction and their own goals as K-12 teachers.
MUOP 357 - Preparation for and performance of a chorus, minor, or major role in a fully staged UNL Opera Theatre production.
AECN 357 - Environmental impact review; air and water pollution control; solid and hazardous waste control; endangered species and habitat preservation; land use regulation; state and federal water rights law.
NREE 357 - Environmental impact review; air and water pollution control; solid and hazardous waste control; endangered species and habitat preservation; land use regulation; state and federal water rights law.
ADPR 358 - Study of design systems and the web design process from concept to prototyped execution.
BRDC 359 - Concepts, theories, technologies and techniques needed for planning, scripting, shooting, and editing different genres and styles of professional, single?camera video productions, features, music videos, instructional videos, commercials, and drama. Composition, continuity, sequencing, aesthetics, and audiences. Operation of professional video cameras and non?linear editing and graphics software.
MATL 360 - Relation of atomic, molecular and crystal structure to the physical, mechanical and chemical properties of metals, alloys, polymers and ceramics. Experience in investigation of properties of engineering materials.
HRTM 360 - Introduces basic hospitality and tourism marketing principles and concepts for the hospitality professional.
ADPR 360 - The principles and practices of planning, evaluating, and selecting a variety of traditional and non-traditional media in a local and national context. Marketing-driven strategic approaches to understand how media fits into an integrated communication system. Integrating information from a variety of resources and applying basic numerical and statistical concepts that build the foundation for strategic media planning.
SOFT 360 - Mentoring and leading software engineering teams.  Topics include roles and responsibilities of a leader, roles and responsibilities of a mentor, and traits of effective leaders and mentors. Techniques for effectively mentoring and leading software engineering teams.
MNGT 360 - Foundations of organizational behavior. This course provides the basic knowledge for managing people in organizations by surveying frameworks for individual, group, and system behaviors.  The course builds critical thinking skills by examining the role of perception, personality and attitudes, motivation, leadership, group dynamics, employee engagement, organizational culture, communication and decision making in the management of work.
DANC 360 - Rehearsal of dance repertory. Participation in the creation of original works. Application of improvisational techniques.
CZEC 361 - Czech history and culture from the Revolution of 1848 to the present. The reign of Hapsburg Emperor-King Francis Joseph (1848-1916), World War I and II, the Cold War, and the successor states of Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic.
HIST 361 - Czech history and culture from the Revolution of 1848 to the present. The reign of Hapsburg Emperor-King Francis Joseph (1848-1916), World War I and II, the Cold War, and the successor states of Czechoslovakia and the Czech Republic.
FINA 361 - Scope and content of the finance specialization; survey of the major theoretical issues; the financial instruments; analysis of the capital management problems; and development of criteria for financial decision making.
MNGT 361 - Introductory course that approaches Human Resource Management from the perspective of the human resource professional and the individual manager or supervisor.   Presents the integrated nature of human resource management and the operation of human resource policies and principles in the contemporary organizational environment.  Materials will cover the challenges and opportunities faced by those who are charged with responsibility for acquisition, management, development, and retention of organizational human capital.  Provides an overview of the typical human resource functions and requisite decision making in those areas.
PHOT 361 - Intermediate work in photography with emphasis on the history and theory of the medium, increased technical control and development of personal work.
CIVE 361 - Introduction to the principles of transportation engineering including operator, user and vehicle characteristics, transportation facility design, traffic operations and control, and transportation planning.
CSCE 361 - Techniques used in the disciplined development of large software projects. Software requirements analysis and specifications, program design, coding and integration testing, and software maintenance. Software estimation techniques, design tools, and complexity metrics.
GEOL 361 - Chemical and physical processes that influence the fate and transport of contaminants (inorganic, organic, microbial) in soil-water environments. Extent, fate, mitigation and impact of various sources of pollution. Remedial technologies used for environmental restoration of contaminated environments.
NRES 361 - Chemical and physical processes that influence the fate and transport of contaminants (inorganic, organic, microbial) in soil-water environments. Extent, fate, mitigation and impact of various sources of pollution. Remedial technologies used for environmental restoration of contaminated environments.
PLAS 361 - Chemical and physical processes that influence the fate and transport of contaminants (inorganic, organic, microbial) in soil-water environments. Extent, fate, mitigation and impact of various sources of pollution. Remedial technologies used for environmental restoration of contaminated environments.
SOIL 361 - Chemical and physical processes that influence the fate and transport of contaminants (inorganic, organic, microbial) in soil-water environments. Extent, fate, mitigation and impact of various sources of pollution. Remedial technologies used for environmental restoration of contaminated environments.
POLS 361 - Analysis of the role and influence of the United Nations in international relations. Comparison of the UN with the League of Nations and with regional international organizations such as the Organization of American States and NATO. Attention to UN programs concerning security, human rights, economic development, and environmental protection.
FINA 361A - Scope and content of the finance specialization with emphasis on financial modeling used for valuation; in-depth analysis of major theoretical issues; analysis of capital management problems and criteria for financial decision making.
CSCE 361H - Techniques used in the disciplined development of large software projects. Software requirements analysis and specifications, program design, coding and integration testing, and software maintenance. Software estimation techniques, design tools, and complexity metrics.
ADPR 362 - Overview of decisions communications managers must make when developing digital content. Introduction to breadth of digital content strategy.
PHOT 362 - Continued work in photography with emphasis on exhibitions and contemporary issues and expression and the production of self-directed work.
EDPS 362 - Training in theories and research-based practice in learning, motivation, and assessment that supports teaching and learning within diverse elementary educational settings. Topics include human cognition, theories of motivation, classroom management, and classroom-based assessment.
FINA 363 - Survey of investment risks and rewards, the operation of the securities business, and an introduction to the problems of qualitative and quantitative analysis and portfolio selection.
EMAR 363 - Develop proficiency in technical skills, creative processes, and critical listening within the realms of sound design, and synthesis.
PSYC 365 - Introduction to factors relevant to substance-related disorders including biological, psychological, social, and clinical. Issues in research, theory and practice are considered.
ECON 365 - Various institutions which collectively constitute the US financial system and a discussion of their origin and development. Analysis of the supply and demand for funds and characteristic of the main financial markets. Emphasis on the determination of the price of credit and the term structure of interest rates.
FINA 365 - Various institutions which collectively constitute the US financial system and a discussion of their origin and development. Analysis of the supply and demand for funds and characteristic of the main financial markets. Emphasis on the determination of the price of credit and the term structure of interest rates.
MNGT 365 - Challenges and opportunities for maximizing the power of a diverse workforce. Contemporary response to the issues of effective management of pluralistic perspectives and the impact of diversity on organizational climate and productivity. Introduction to diversity competence skill development techniques, strategies, and best practices for organizational effectiveness.
MUSC 365 - Music of the Middle Ages, Renaissance and Baroque. An examination of style and social context from Gregorian chant through the mid-eighteenth century.
FINA 367 - This course is designed to provide students with a basic understanding of fixed-income markets, fixed-income securities, and tools employed by market participants to the analysis of fixed-income investments. The main topics include (1) debt and money markets, (2) interest rate behavior and determination, (3) bond valuation, (4) managing bond risk, (5) bonds with embedded options, and (6) mortgage-backed and asset-backed securities.
PSYC 368 - Introduction to processes of instrumental and classical conditioning in animals and humans, and to theories of and research on motivation.
BIOS 368 - Introduction to the use of plants in traditional and alternative medicine, nutrition, and wellness.  Examination of the biological, historical, and cultural origins of plant medicinal compounds used to enhance wellness or treat human diseases, such as cancer and heart disease. Consideration of the social and ethical consequences of the development of plant-derived drugs, use of herbal remedies in wellness and nutrition and of other emerging issues associated with plants in human medicine.
ECEN 370 - Combinational and sequential logic circuits. MSI chips, programmable logic devices (PAL, ROM, PLA) used to design combinational and sequential circuits. CAD tools. LSI and PLD components and their use. Hardware design experience.
MECH 370 - Introduction to traditional and modern manufacturing processes and methods to include: foundry; forming processes; welding; metal removal theory and practices; modern manufacturing systems and automation; and economics of process selection.
BLAW 371 - Law as it relates to the business transaction. Torts, contracts, sales, and related topics in the political and economics environment in which business functions and consideration of social and ethical issues creating pressure for change.
CYAF 371 - Introduce students to methods used in infant-toddler programs, including center-based, home-based, and family-support models.   Delivered in hybrid format with most course material online supplemented by brief in-person class meetings.   Examination of program models and frameworks, curricula, training programs and methods of assessment used in infant-toddler programs.
CYAF 371L - Course will feature 9 hours of practicum shadowing experiences in 3 different types of infant-toddler programs in the first half of the semester and 21 hours of weekly practicum in one of the settings for a more in-depth experience during the second half of the semester. Emphasis will be on skills needed for Nebraska Early Childhood Endowment programs and on Nebraska Early Learning Guidelines but examination of programs from other states and international efforts will also be included in course materials.
BLAW 372 - Basic legal principles needed to recognize the relevant issues and the legal implications of business situations. Application of the principles of law to accounting and auditing. Political, social, and ethical implications. Property and contracts.
COMM 372 - Explores the communication behaviors that constitute leadership, preparing you to deal with problems encountered by leaders and engage the behaviors, understand the attributes, and develop the communication skills needed to lead effectively. Includes a critical analysis of the social, cultural, psychological, and emotional dynamics that shape leadership.
BRDC 372 - Produce audio stories in broadcast news style for broadcast and digital outlets.
MECH 373 - Force action related to displacement, velocity, and acceleration of rigid bodies. Kinematics of plane motion, kinetics of translation and rotation. Mass moment of inertia, vibration, work, energy and power, impulse and momentum.
FILM 373 - Study of particular film theories and methods of applied criticism for the intermediate or advanced student with previous film study experience. Weekly film screenings.
MECH 373H - Motion of particles and rigid bodies under the action of forces and moments. Kinematics of plane motion: displacement, velocity, and acceleration. Kinetics of translation and rotation; work, energy and power; impulse, momentum and impact. Introduction to vibration analysis.
MUED 374 - Techniques of choral and instrumental conducting, score reading and preparation, rehearsal techniques, aural skills, practice strategies, and interpersonal considerations. Aspects of arranging as they relate to the conductor's craft, transposition, orchestration, and analysis. Resources available to conductors and arrangers, books, software, videos, periodicals and Internet sites.
BLAW 375 - An examination of the continuing influence of the common law on the resolution of contemporary legal issues. Considers the common law in the context of law created by other law-making institutions. Reviews the law of torts, contracts, and property and explores how traditional doctrines have evolved to govern current social problems, with emphasis on issues impacting business activity.
FINA 375 - Analysis of the environment in which financial reporting choices are made and what the options are. How financial statements and data are used for various types of decisions. How to avoid misusing financial statement data.
BRDC 375 - Broadcast sports reporting. Play-by-play sports reporting.
BLAW 376 - Examines civil and criminal justice system and key legal concepts that frame the operations of these systems, including jurisdiction and venue, civil and criminal case progression, structure and function of key legal documents, discovery and evidence, civil appeals process, components of criminal responsibility criminal defenses, search and seizure, the privilege against self-incrimination, sentencing issues, and the post-conviction process. Examines issues that arise in business settings.
ENGL 377 - Recent research on literacy development and reading processes. Extended reflection and some application of theory to students' experiences with reading instruction and their own goals as K-12 teachers.
POLS 377 - Causes, consequences and aftermath of drugs and thugs (war criminals, drugs/arms traffickers and modern-day caudillos, among others) and their role in contemporary international and human security.
GEOG 377 - The intersection of gender, identity, power, and representation throughout time and space in the Great Plains of the United States and Canada.
WMNS 377 - The intersection of gender, identity, power, and representation throughout time and space in the Great Plains of the United States and Canada.
CSCE 378 - Knowledge and techniques useful in the design of computing systems for human use. Includes models of HCI, human information processing characteristics important in HCI, computer system features, such as input and output devices, dialogue techniques, and information presentation, task analysis, prototyping and the iterative design cycle, user interface implementation, interface evaluation.
CYAF 380 - The theoretical foundations for working with families in the community and school. Professional interaction skills needed to establish sound working relationships with families. Ethical guidelines for professional interactions with families to facilitate appropriate application of principles to the diversity of professions working with families.
LARC 380 - To provide students with information about career choices in landscape architecture and an appropriate knowledge base and support in the development of materials with which to secure an internship position.
HIST 380 - Analysis of the major social and economic changes in China during the previous six centuries. Includes the rapid growth of China's population, changes in family structure and peasant life, the development of China's commerce, China's relationship with the world economy, popular religion in China, and the social and economic transformation of China during the communist era.
MECH 380 - Theory, statistics, applications and design of mechanical engineering experiments.
ENGL 380 - Introduction to writing center theory and consulting practice. Students engage in research that contributes to scholarly conversations in writing center studies.
ADPR 381 - Develop, conduct and interpret primary research to arrive at actionable insights that increase a brand's engagement with its target audiences, attract new consumers, reverse declining sales, or make a campaign go viral overnight that building on skills from previous courses.
BIOS 381 - Comparative study of the morphology and natural history of invertebrate animals; emphasis on phylogenetic relationships.
FREN 382 - A survey of developments in and interrelations of the arts and of ideas in France since the Revolution.
FINA 382 - Real estate market: ownership, interests, sales, leases and agencies, special financing institutions, financial aspects of ownership, managerial aspects of brokerage, property valuation, and real estate appraising.
CYAF 382 - Introduction to principles of parenting within multiple contexts including developmental, structural, and cultural perspectives. Evaluation of parenting concerns and relationships as they apply to working with families. Content will cover parenting philosophies as well as a central focus on programs and practices related to parent education. There will be a strong emphasis on the links between theory, research, and application.
BIOS 383 - Introduction to behavioral neurobiology research, theory, and practice as well as to the scientists and the ongoing research conducted across this field.
MUCP 383 - Applied studio instruction in music composition.
POLS 383 - The questions of how we ought to live our lives via the study of classic texts in political thought. Debate what makes our actions - and, indeed our lives - just, choice-worthy, and even heroic.
CYAF 383 - Theoretical and research bases in readings, facilitated class discussions, and practical assignments to develop understanding of emergent language and literacy skills and skill development in children from birth to five. Focus on understanding developmental trajectories of critical early language and literacy skills as well as common benchmarks for transitioning to kindergarten.
NUTR 384 - Anatomical and mechanical principles as related to human movement.
MUCP 384 - Applied studio instruction in music composition.
MUSC 384 - Investigation of topics in music, and the selection of one topic, for the purpose of preparing a proposal for a research document or undergraduate thesis.
MUSC 384A - Investigation of topics in music, and the selection of one topic, for the purpose of preparing a proposal for a research document or undergraduate thesis.
MUSC 384B - Investigation of topics in music, and the selection of one topic, for the purpose of preparing a proposal for a research document or undergraduate thesis.
MUSC 384E - Investigation of topics in music, and the selection of one topic, for the purpose of preparing a proposal for a research document or undergraduate thesis.
ANTH 386 - Introduction to concept of heritage, digital heritage applications, and hands-on experience in creating digital heritage products using desktop and mobile devices.
MUNM 387 - Survey of the development of American jazz music from the late nineteenth century to the present, with emphasis on Black ethnic origins and the stylistic idioms of individual performers.
ALEC 388 - Ethics focusing on agricultural and natural resource issues. Using case studies from the professional workplace and contemporary society, develops intellectual skills necessary to reflect critically on ethical issues and apply appropriate conceptual tools for resolution of issues arising from conflicting ethical and value systems.
BIOC 390 - Seminars by UNL faculty, graduate students, and external guests provide a picture of research in biochemistry and the related life sciences
ENGR 391 - Topics vary.
INTF 391 - Special topics that address current and emerging issues in international trade.
JOMC 391 - Topics vary each term. 12 hours max special topics hours at all levels (100, 200, 300, 400) per degree. May be repeated up to three times so long as the topics are different.
MODL 391 - Topics vary.
PGAM 391 - Topics vary each term
SPMC 391 - Topics vary each term.
PLAS 391L - Topics vary.
PLAS 391T - Topics vary.
JOMC 392 - Topics vary every term.
COMM 392 - Topic varies.
EAEP 392 - Special topics that address current and emerging issues in entrepreneurship and business development.
COMM 394 - Independent reading or research under direction of a faculty member.
EAEP 395 - The student will work for a minimum of 250 hours in an entrepreneurial business or social organization.
AGRI 395 - Internship experiences for applied science students. Students will collaborate with a faculty mentor to contract plan of work and complete reflection on experience.
ENGR 395 - Provides an opportunity to reflect on experience gained through an internship related to the major field of study and an integral or important part of their program of study. Develop non-technical professional skills through reflective writing assignments. May be repeated.
BIOS 395 - Combination of work outside the University and academic work in biological sciences arranged through the Career Services Office.
CASC 395 - Academic work associated with an approved internship.
ENSC 395 - Structured practical experience under the supervision of an energy science professional.
GIST 395 - Experiential learning opportunity related to a discipline within the School of Global Integrated Studies.
WMNS 395 - Experiential learning designed to deepen understanding of classroom concepts related to study of women and gender in society.
ARTP 395 - Special internship placement in community, state, or federal institutions related to the area of emphasis or interest.
GRPH 395 - Internship in the field of graphic design exploring areas of study relating to professional development.
SOCI 395 - Internship and professional experience at government agencies, private, non-profit, or other organizations.
POLS 395 - Internship in government agencies, public-interest groups, political parties, or other organizations.
MRKT 395 - Provides an opportunity to study theories, principles, practices, techniques, and strategies utilized in the field of marketing through a marketing internship. Reflect on classroom knowledge and develop practical experience in professional business situations through an approved internship under the direction of a faculty member.
ACCT 395 - Provides an opportunity to study theories, principles, practices, techniques, and strategies utilized in the business field through an internship related to the major field of study and an integral or important part of their program of study. Reflect on classroom knowledge and develop practical experience in professional business situations through an approved internship.
ACTS 395 - Provides an opportunity to study theories, principles, practices, techniques, and strategies utilized in the business field through an internship related to the major field of study and an integral or important part of their program of study. Reflect on classroom knowledge and develop practical experience in professional business situations through an approved internship.
BSAD 395 - Provides an opportunity to study theories, principles, practices, techniques, and strategies utilized in the business field through an internship related to the major field of study and an integral or important part of their program of study. Reflect on classroom knowledge and develop practical experience in professional business situations through an approved internship.
ECON 395 - Provides an opportunity to study theories, principles, practices, techniques, and strategies utilized in the business field through an internship related to the major field of study and an integral or important part of their program of study. Reflect on classroom knowledge and develop practical experience in professional business situations through an approved internship.
FINA 395 - Provides an opportunity to study theories, principles, practices, techniques, and strategies utilized in the business field through an internship related to the major field of study and an integral or important part of their program of study. Reflect on classroom knowledge and develop practical experience in professional business situations through an approved internship.
MNGT 395 - Provides an opportunity to study theories, principles, practices, techniques, and strategies utilized in the business field through an internship related to the major field of study and an integral or important part of their program of study. Reflect on classroom knowledge and develop practical experience in professional business situations through an approved internship.
SCMA 395 - Provides an opportunity to study theories, principles, practices, techniques, and strategies utilized in the business field through an internship related to the major field of study and an integral or important part of their program of study. Reflect on classroom knowledge and develop practical experience in professional business situations through an approved internship.
ASCI 395A - Extension and application of the animal science curriculum within the context of industry (e.g., internship), extension and service, research, or teaching experience.
ASCI 395B - Extension and application of the animal science curriculum within the context of industry (e.g., internship), extension and service, research, or teaching experience. A faculty adviser for the area of interest must be identified prior to registering for the course.
ASCI 395D - Extension and application of the animal science curriculum within the context of industry (e.g., internship), extension and service, research, or teaching experience. A faculty adviser for the area of interest must be identified prior to registering for the course.
ASCI 395E - Extension and application of the animal science curriculum within the context of industry (e.g., internship), extension and service, research, or teaching experience.
UHON 395H - Topic varies.
AECN 396 - Individual or group projects in research, literature review, or extension of course work under supervision and evaluation of a departmental faculty member.
CHEM 396 - Independent reading or research under direction of a faculty member.
CHIN 396 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty member.
CLAS 396 - Independent readings or research under direction by a faculty member.
CYAF 396 - Individual problems and readings in current literature.
CZEC 396 - Individual or group projects in activities such as research, literature review, extension of course work, or preparation of teaching materials, under supervision.
EMAR 396 - Independent work in emerging media arts.
FREN 396 - Special research project or reading program under the direction of a staff member in the department.
GEOG 396 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty member.
GERM 396 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty member.
GREK 396 - Independent reading or research under direction by faculty member.
HEBR 396 - Independent readings or research.
JAPN 396 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty member.
LATN 396 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty member.
POLS 396 - Independent reading or research under direction of a faculty member.
RELG 396 - Independent readings or research under direction by a faculty member.
RUSS 396 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty member.
SCMA 396 - Special research project or reading program.
SOCI 396 - Independent reading or research under direction of a faculty member.
SPAN 396 - Special research project or reading program under the direction of a staff member in the department.
WMNS 396 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty member.
ARAB 396 - Independent reading or research under direction of a faculty member.
GRPH 396 - Independent study course exploring subject matter in specialized areas of graphic design.
CYAF 396H - Individual problems and readings in current literature under the direction of a faculty member in the department.
JOMC 397 - A professionally oriented lab to learn processes and media fundamentals. Work on one or more teams with real clients, sources, stories and content within the community. A real-world setting and experience to develop skills in content production, social and digital media, and emerging technologies.
CRIM 397 - Job-related experience in a criminal justice agency and permission to enroll must be received from the student's adviser each semester.
SPED 397 - Guided observations and/or clinical experiences in schools and/or agencies offering programs for children and/or youth.
BIOS 397 - A structured training experience in the professional skills used by teaching and learning assistants in life science laboratories, recitations and lectures.
BIOS 397A - A combination of academic work and instruction in the anatomy or physiology laboratories in biological sciences: cadaver dissection or work with physiological equipment; assist in the instruction of anatomical and physiological concepts.
MUED 397A - Supervised teaching experiences in school.
CYAF 397J - Guided observations and/or clinical experiences in schools and/or agencies offering programs for children, youth, and families.
EMAR 398 - Create an Emerging Media Arts project applying advanced principles of history, theory, design, and production.
CERM 398 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
DRAW 398 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
PANT 398 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
PHOT 398 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
PRNT 398 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
SCLP 398 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
COMM 398 - Structured research assistant experience with faculty-led research projects to provide undergraduate students interested in research processes with hands-on experience.
CRIM 398 - Provides advanced majors and minors with experience conducting research in the field of criminology and criminal justice. Students will work under the supervision of a faculty member to complete research tasks that integrate learning with service. Tasks may include reviewing relevant literature, instrument development, data collection, data entry/cleaning, data analysis, codebook development, presentation of findings.
ACCT 398 - Topics vary.
DANC 398 - Requires analysis and annotation of a major original choreographic work, a solo performance in a major dance work and participation in a technique course offered with a guest artist in a medium not usually offered in the program, or an advanced research project.
MUSC 398 - Investigation of selected topics in music.
CHEM 398 - Special research project under the direction of a member of the departmental faculty. The grade will be awarded following the submission of a written progress and/or final report.
SOCI 398 - Independent research under the direction of a faculty member.
NRES 399 - Research, literature review, or extension of course work.
ALEC 399 - Individual or group projects in research, literature review, or extension of course work under supervision and evaluation of a departmental faculty member.
ASCI 399 - Individual or group projects in research, literature review, or extension of course work under supervision and evaluation of a departmental faculty member.
ECON 399 - Special research project or reading program under the direction of a staff member in the department.
FINA 399 - Special research project or reading program.
MLSC 399 - Opportunity to expand study of the Army beyond the levels presented in programmed courses. Studies may approach military leadership, military history or contemporary issues from a broad perspective or more narrowly defined in-depth analysis.
MNGT 399 - Special research project or reading program.
PLAS 399 - Individual or group projects in research, literature review, or extension of course work.
TEAC 399 - Special research project or reading program under the direction of a staff member in the department.
MRKT 399 - For advanced undergraduates with demonstrated ability and special interests in marketing who wish to undertake an individual project under the direction of a faculty member.
ECEN 399 - Research accompanied by a written report of the results.
MECH 399 - Engineering design or laboratory investigation that an undergraduate is qualified to undertake.
ENGL 399 - Independent research leading to a thesis.
MATH 399 - Independent research leading to an undergraduate thesis.
ECON 399H - Special research project or reading program.
MRKT 399H - Research project or reading program.
CSCE 399H - Independent practice and research leading to a thesis.
ENGL 399H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
ETHN 399H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
MATH 399H - Independent research and writing leading to an undergraduate thesis.
ARTP 400 - Culminating experience in studio art. Writing, thinking, and talking about art, and planning, preparing, and presenting a Capstone Exhibition.
AHIS 400 - Culminating experience in art history. A comprehensive analysis of the discipline of art history. Builds on material from previous course work. Historiographic and methodological issues.
POLS 400 - Democracy as a form of government. Types of democracy, alternatives to democracy, and the history and consequences of democracy. Democratic citizenship, what makes a good democratic citizen, whether and how democratic citizenship can be promoted.
CRPL 400 - Field of community and regional planning introduced and studied in relation to the history of cities, urbanization, and regionalization. Origins and evolution of American urban and regional planning practice. The planning process as a response to social, political, physical, and economic factors is analyzed. Introduces the community comprehensive planning process, plan implementation, and functional areas of planning.
BRDC 400 - Produce multimedia presentations and content for publication with depth, exploration, and substance across web and streaming platforms by applying journalistic and broadcasting skills.
JOUR 400 - Produce multimedia presentations and content for publication with depth, exploration, and substance across web and streaming platforms by applying journalistic and broadcasting skills.
CRIM 400 - Focuses on the intersection of individuals with mental health, substance abuse, and/or severe &amp; persistent mental illness diagnoses and the criminal justice system. Examine how individuals become involved in the criminal justice system and how the criminal justice system and other social services respond to their involvement.
ENGR 400 - Professional relations, personal requirements, civic responsibilities, and ethical obligations for engineering practice. Legal registration of engineers and architects. Subprofessional and professional services. Changing conditions in engineering practice. Requirements for placement in engineering.
COMM 400 - Major writers, works, and concepts involved in the rhetorical approach to the study of human communication.
GEOL 400 - Folding and faulting of rocks, types of texture and rock structure, cleavage, joints, dikes, and unconformaties; structural interpretation of geologic maps; plate tectonics, mountain belts, and regional structures.
PHIL 400 - Central philosophical problems or the work of some significant philosopher. Reading of primary sources, the interpretation of philosophical texts, and the writing of research papers.
AGST 400A - Identifies safety and health risks in industrial work environments. Focus on how managers and supervisors meet their responsibilities for providing a safe workplace for their employees. Includes the identification and remediation of workplace hazards.
AGST 400E - The science, engineering, economics and business of converting biorenewable resources into bioenergy and biobased products. Biorenewable concepts as they relate to drivers of change, feedstock production, economics, transportation and logistics, and marketing.
DRAW 401 - Advanced work in drawing with emphasis on individual problems.
BIOC 401 - Structure and function of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids and nucleic acids; enzymes; principal metabolic pathways; and biochemical expression of genetic information.
MLSC 401 - Proficiencies in planning and executing complex operations, functioning as a member of a staff and mentoring subordinates. Training management, methods of effective staff collaboration, and developmental counseling techniques.
NAVS 401 - Designed to provide a scholarly basis for leadership and management studies for both future military officers and private sector leaders. Creates a deeper understanding of the topic through case studies, selected readings, and focused research that provides the student with a deeper understanding of leadership theory and management tools that can be used in future leadership roles.
PSYC 401 - Survey of the relationships between psychology and the law, legal system and legal process. Issues in research, theory, and practice considered.
MUAP 401 - Applied studio instruction in Voice
MUED 401A - Refine teaching skills in general music setting. Opportunity to individualize strategies for increasing knowledge of general music methods and materials and improve the effectiveness of teaching behaviors. Learning activities include creating original instructional materials, practicing music performance skills commonly used in classroom teaching, and writing and revising a formal statement of values related to the field of general music education.
MUED 401B - The course provides advanced work in the rehearsal of instrumental music ensembles. Students will learn how conducting and other presentational factors affect instructional effectiveness. They will also learn how to integrate alternative educational approaches into instrumental rehearsal.
MUED 401E - This course examines and provides resources for ensembles and activities that support and enhance the school chorus. Madrigals, solo and small ensembles, vocal jazz, and musical productions will be examined. Stylistic considerations, rehearsal techniques, various characteristics unique to each group, literature, and the organization, scheduling, and administration of these ensembles will be the focus.
CSCE 401H - Application of Raikes School core content in a team oriented, project management setting. Complete projects in consultation with private and public sector clients.
MUED 401J - Fundamental training, programming, and administrative approaches for marching bands.
MUED 401K - Fundamental training in programming and visual design/drill charting for marching bands.
ENGL 401K - Overview of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer drama and popular culture.
BIOC 401L - Laboratory exercises and experiments that complement material covered in <a href="/search/?P=BIOC%20401" title="BIOC&#160;401" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'BIOC 401');">BIOC&#160;401</a>.
MLSC 401L - Leadership workshop providing the opportunity to practice leadership and managerial skills through practical application. Leadership laboratory programs are developed, planned, and conducted by the students registered in these workshops.
MUED 401N - Analysis of K-12 music teaching with special attention to: teacher certification, current issues in education, and professional communication.
MUED 401P - Introduction to elements of vernacular musicianship, including &quot;rock band&quot; instruments, ear-based performance, peer collaboration, and beginning songwriting.
DRAW 402 - Advanced work in drawing with emphasis on individual problems.
ENGR 402 - Energy as a critical component of civilization. The critical role of energy from the economic and political point of view world wide. Energy resources available, the technology to use the resources, the economics of energy production, the environmental consequences of energy use, and energy policy.
THEA 402 - Advanced development and experiential practice in theatrical movement techniques related to character development and imaginative expression.
MUAP 402 - Applied studio instruction in Piano
HIST 402 - Sexual practices and ideologies in American history from the 1800's to the present.
WMNS 402 - Sexual practices and ideologies in American history from the 1800's to the present.
GERM 403 - Advanced syntax and style in their application to composition.
MUED 403 - Analysis of K to 12th grade music teaching: teacher certification; selected legal aspects of education; current issues in education; and professional communication.
CYAF 403 - Analysis of school programs with attention to: teacher certification in Family and Consumer Sciences; teacher and student rights and responsibilities; proper conduct of teachers; selected legal aspects of education; methods of communicating with parents and community members; current issues which impact education; and reflection and discussion of student teaching experiences. Reinforcement of learning theories, teaching principles, management, and best practices.
TEAC 403B - The capstone course will consist of seminar sessions requiring broad knowledge of teaching by addressing salient issues that complement the pre-service teaching experience, discussions, major writing assignments, and a scholarly presentation. Examine and reflect on the themes outlined in the TLTE 14 Dimensions of Teaching. Reflect on evidence from the whole pre-service development and examine it through the entire length of coursework and field experiences.
CSCE 403H - Application of Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management core content in a team oriented, project management setting. Complete projects in consultation with private and public sector clients.
RAIK 403H - Application of Jeffrey S. Raikes School of Computer Science and Management core content in a team oriented, project management setting. Complete projects in consultation with private and public sector clients.
SOFT 403H - A substantial software engineering project requiring design, planning and scheduling, teamwork, written and oral communications, and the integration and application of technical and analytical aspects of computer science and software engineering in consultation with private and public sector clients.
SPAN 405 - Theoretical and practical aspects of Spanish grammar.
MUAP 405 - Applied studio instruction in Violin
BIOS 406 - Biotic and abiotic factors as they influence insect development, behavior, distribution, and abundance.
ENTO 406 - Biotic and abiotic factors as they influence insect development, behavior, distribution, and abundance.
ECEN 406 - Symmetrical components and fault calculations, power system stability, generator modeling (circuit view point), voltage control system, high voltage DC transmission, and system protection.
MUAP 406 - Applied studio instruction in Viola
RAIK 406H - Application of research principles to solve complex problems through the delivery of innovative, cutting-edge solutions and to gain an understanding of the roles involved.
MUAP 407 - Applied studio instruction in Cello
THEA 408 - Selected performance in acting and directing in University Theatre, and Experimental Theatre.
NUTR 408 - Will provide knowledge of health policy development in the United States and with opportunities to apply health advocacy skills through learning, reflection, and engagement with local organizations.
MUAP 408 - Applied studio instruction in Double Bass
ECEN 408 - Applied electromagnetics: Transmission lines in digital electronics and communication. The quasistatic electric and magnetic fields: electric and magnetic circuits and electromechanical energy conversion. Guided waves: rectangular and cylindrical metallic waveguides and optical fibers. Radiation and antennas: line and aperture antennas and arrays.
MECH 408 - Design methodology for various heat exchangers employed in mechanical engineering. Introduction to computer-aided design as applied to heat exchangers. Practical exercises in actual design tasks.
MATH 408 - Analysis of the connections between college mathematics and high school algebra and geometry.
ECON 409 - Experience with research methods in economics. Statistical analysis to investigate economic issues and related policies; find relevant data; perform and interpret univariate and multivariate statistical analyses; and formulate and test specific hypotheses.
MUAP 409 - Applied studio instruction in Harp
PHIL 409 - Intensive study of basic problems in the Theory of Knowledge: the nature of knowledge, the analysis of perception and memory, the justification of induction, the problem of how one knows other minds, and the analysis of a prior knowledge. Readings from recent work.
PLAS 409A - The application of fundamental genetics principles in inheritance, gene mapping and DNA analysis to decision making by plant breeders with the goal of improving disease resistance in crop cultivars.  Learning is structured by the genetics discovery story told in published research articles and the thinking process of plant breeders who will use these discoveries in their work.
THEA 409A - Production opportunities in Stage, Front of House, Company, and Production Management. Overseeing the planning and execution of an actual production.
THEA 409B - Production opportunities in Technical Direction and Construction Management. Overseeing the planning and execution of an actual production.
PLAS 409B - The application of basic science and technology by plant genetic engineering experts with the goal of teaming with plant breeders to improve disease resistance in crop cultivars.  Learning is structured by the genetics discovery story told in published research articles and the thinking process of genetic engineers and plant breeders who will use these discoveries in their work.
THEA 409E - Production opportunities in Lighting Design and Electrics Shop. Overseeing the planning and execution of designs for actual production.
THEA 409M - Production opportunities in Properties design and construction. Overseeing the planning and execution of designs for actual production.
THEA 409P - Production opportunities in Scenic Art and set finishing. Overseeing the planning and execution of designs for actual production.
THEA 409R - Production opportunities in Sound Design and Audio Engineering. Overseeing the planning and execution of an actual production.
THEA 409T - Production opportunities in costume design and/or construction. Overseeing the planning and execution of designs for actual production.
THEA 409W - Production opportunities in scenic design. Overseeing the planning and execution of designs for actual production.
ACCT 410 - Duties and responsibilities of auditors, methods of conducting various kind of audits; audit working papers; the preparation of the audit report; the auditor's certificate; special problems in the audit of different kinds of enterprises.
ENGL 410 - A literary movement (national or transnational), the development of a genre, or the intellectual and historical origins of an idea, as reflected in literature. May include the literature of abolition, alternative Romanticism, literary modernism, the literature of Civil Rights, postmodernism, and/or the avant garde movement.
ECEN 410 - Probability space, random vectors, multivariate distributions, moment generating functions, conditional expectations, discrete and continuous-time random processes, random process characterization and representation, linear systems with random inputs.
MUAP 410 - Applied studio instruction in Trumpet
PLAS 411 - Basic steps required to produce genetically engineered crops, genetic engineering procedures used to develop current crops and innovations that will lead to future products, genetic engineering process and predicting how changes in different steps of the process influence the final crop, and application of genetic engineering technology to plan the development of new genetically engineered crops.
CSCE 411 - Concepts of relational and object-oriented data modeling through the process of data model development including conceptual, logical and physical modeling. Techniques for identifying and creating relationships between discrete data members, reasoning about how data modeling and analysis are incorporated in system design and development, and specification paradigms for data models. Common tools and technologies for engineering systems and frameworks for integrating data. Design and analysis of algorithms and techniques for identification and exploration of data relationships, such as Bayesian probability and statistics, clustering, map-reduce, and web-based visualization.
MUAP 411 - Applied studio instruction in Horn
MNGT 411 - Significant community engagement by conducting an entire philanthropic grant process across the semester. Fosters understanding of how strategic giving has social impact. Examine the structure of projects. Refine leadership through applied group work. Focus on philanthropic environment and awareness of corporate and non-profit contributions as they create social change within the community.
CNST 411 - Ownership and administration of companies focusing on documentation and specifications, contracts, take-offs, estimating, bidding, bonds, insurance, project management and administration, scheduling, time and cost management, labor law and labor relations, and project safety.
THEA 411 - Intensive work in designing lighting for theatre, dance, musicals, and opera.
ANTH 412 - Cross-cultural variation in family, marriage, and kinship and theories that account for variation in these fundamental areas of social life.
FINA 412 - The economic functions of life insurance. The human-life value concept and the basic forms of life insurance and annuities used in insuring life values. Life insurance pricing, functional company operations, legal aspects, and contractual provision. Health and other specialized forms of human-life value insurance.
MATH 412 - Modern geometry from multiple points of view, such as axiomatic, transformational, or analytic. Applications of geometry. Additional topics vary, but can include projective geometry, hyperbolic geometry, or Euclidean constructions.
MNGT 412 - Management in organizational settings requires skillful negotiation.  This course will help develop a set of useful negotiation skills and strategies. Course uses a series of negotiation simulations and debriefings that help students learn to identify different types of conflict situations; learn to employ appropriate, purposeful negotiation techniques; and learn to evaluate negotiated outcomes.
MUAP 412 - Applied studio instruction in Trombone
MUAP 413 - Applied studio instruction in Euphonium
TEAC 413A - Theoretical exploration of how second / additional languages are learned.
TEAC 413M - Theory and pedagogy in the teaching of multilingual learners at all levels of K-12 education. Identify and design linguistically and culturally responsive instruction for multilingual learners in the content areas (e.g. language arts, science, mathematics, social sciences)
MNGT 414 - Introduction to major management issues that companies face when doing business internationally. Prepare leaders to deal with a wide array of cultural, economic, legal, and technological differences. Deal with concepts, issues, and research in international management, with a focus on the international application of: (1) culture, communication, and leadership, (2) strategic management, and (3) development and coordination of international subsidiaries.
HIST 414 - Historical context of changes in religion, literature, philosophy, and the arts, 400-1450.
MRST 414 - Historical context of changes in religion, literature, philosophy, and the arts, 400-1450.
THEA 414 - Advanced lighting design through the rendering of light story boards.
MUAP 414 - Applied studio instruction in Tuba
MUAP 415 - Applied studio instruction in Flute
GLST 415 - Mechanics of grant writing and fundraising for social impact organizations.
THEA 416 - Computer Aided Design (CAD) as it applies to scenic, costume, and lighting design. Emphasis on two-dimensional drafting, three-dimensional modeling, and computer graphics.
MUAP 416 - Applied studio instruction in Oboe
MUAP 417 - Applied studio instruction in Clarinet
MATH 417 - Elementary group theory, including cyclic, dihedral, and permutation groups; subgroups, cosets, normality, and quotient groups; fundamental isomorphism theorems; the theorems of Cayley, Lagrange, and Cauchy; and if time allows, Sylow's theorems.
ECON 417 - Introduction to basic econometric methods including economic model estimation and analyses of economic data. Hypothesis formulation and testing, economic prediction and problems in analyzing economic cross-section and time series data are considered.
ENGL 417 - The in depth analysis of a particular topic in place studies and the environmental humanities.
MUAP 418 - Applied studio instruction in Bassoon
ANTH 418 - Explores historical and contemporary aspects of the missions, ethical and political issues concerning exhibits and collections held by museums.
PHIL 418 - Intensive study of main problems in metaphysics, especially universals and particulars, the relation of mind and matter, the categories of the real, criteria of identity, and existential propositions. Readings from recent philosophers.
THEA 419 - In-depth costume design in the areas of design conception and techniques of design communication. Application of principles learned in Costume Design I.
MUAP 419 - Applied studio instruction in Saxophone
PLAS 420 - Introduction to applied computational methods to analyze biological data, efficiently manipulate large data sets, and automate workflows. Learn strategies for assembling and analyzing data generated by modern high throughput sequencing platforms.
BSAD 420 - Connects business functional areas to global contexts in theory and practice.  Covers international management from a strategic perspective with an in-depth focus on cross-cultural dimensions among countries. Examines emerging competitive strategies used by multinational companies and strategic issues in international company expansions and international venture launches.
MECH 420 - Heat transfer by conduction, convection, and radiation. Correlation of theory with experimental data and engineering design.
BIOS 420 - Molecular basis of genetics. Gene structure and regulation, transposable elements, chromosome structure, DNA replication, and repair mechanisms and recombination.
MBIO 420 - Molecular basis of genetics. Gene structure and regulation, transposable elements, chromosome structure, DNA replication, and repair mechanisms and recombination.
MUAP 420 - Applied studio instruction in Percussion
CNST 420 - Examination of professional practice considering the perspectives of designers and the contractors and their respective relationships to society, specific client types, and other collaborators in the design and construction fields. Focus on ethics, professional communication and responsibility, professional organization, office management, environmental stewardship, professional registration, and owner-designer-contractor relationships.
ENTR 421 - Covers the creative skills fundamental to the process of identifying and exploiting entrepreneurial opportunities and the analytical toolkit needed to explore the feasibility of an entrepreneurial opportunity. Integrates experiential exercises, thought leadership in the field, and case study analysis to hone in on the critical importance of the entrepreneurial mindset to society. A variety of contexts are considered, including traditional small businesses, social/non-profit organizations, and innovative efforts within established firms
ECON 421 - Determinants of the volume, prices, and commodity composition of trade. Effects of trade, international resource movements, trade restrictions on resource allocation, income distribution, and social welfare.
NAVS 421 - Studies broad aspects of warfare and its interaction with current maneuver warfare doctrine. Case study examination of the historic influences of current tactical, operational and strategic implications of maneuver warfare practices. Specific focus on the United States Marine Corps as the premier maneuver warfare fighting institution.
ECEN 421 - Introduction to semiconductor fundamentals, charge carrier concentration and carrier transport, energy bands, and recombination. PN junctions, static and dynamic, and special PN junction diode devices.
PSYC 421 - Differences between sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, and sexuality.  Social construction of gender, and the intersections between gender and other social identities (e.g., sexuality, race/ethnicity). Interrogate gender within the field of psychology (e.g., developmental, neuroscience, cognitive, personality, social); Role if gender in important aspects of the human experience (e.g., bodies, violence, media, work, parenthood, mental health). Application of gender outside the classroom (e.g., how gender shapes our every-day lives and experiences).
WMNS 421 - Differences between sex, gender, gender identity, gender expression, and sexuality.  Social construction of gender, and the intersections between gender and other social identities (e.g., sexuality, race/ethnicity). Interrogate gender within the field of psychology (e.g., developmental, neuroscience, cognitive, personality, social); Role if gender in important aspects of the human experience (e.g., bodies, violence, media, work, parenthood, mental health). Application of gender outside the classroom (e.g., how gender shapes our every-day lives and experiences).
ASCI 422 - Feeding practices for domestic animals. Applied animal nutrition and feed formulation.
ENTR 422 - Addresses financial, human resource, operations and marketing issues that face entrepreneurs whose businesses are confronted with significant growth.  In addition, will learn change management concepts that are targeted towards managing an organization in extremely turbulent times.  Prepares students to work in fast-growth firms, whether they are interested in starting their own business or joining an already established fast-growth firm.  Helpful for students interested in fast-growth industries such as life science and high technology.
PHYS 422 - Introduction to structural, thermal, electrical, and magnetic properties of solids, based on concepts of atomic structure, chemical bonding in molecules, and electron states in solids. Principles underlying molecular design of materials and solid-state devices.
JOMC 422 - Multicultural and gender diversity issues within the mass media. Broadcast news, print, and advertising media messages of racial, ethnic, and gender based minorities including African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, Native Americans, and women.
TMFD 422 - Comprehensive study of issues involved in global sourcing, including the scope, trends, and sustainability of current practices. An analysis of cultural, political, ethical, and economic perspectives related to global sourcing, production, trade and distribution of textiles and apparel products.
ENTR 423 - Takes an in-depth look at the business planning process.  By the end of the class, students produce their own business plans.  Learn through their own business plan writing, through in-depth cases studies, by engaging in role plays and by interacting with business executives.  Business plans are a critical part of any organization, thus, preparing students to develop business plans for a variety of new concepts and ideas, whether inside an established firm or as part of the start-up new venture.   Students will be asked to enter their business plans into the business planning competitions in which the university participates.
ECON 423 - Advanced survey of development problems and goals; roles of land, labor, capital, entrepreneurship, and technical progress in economic growth of the less developed countries. Theories and strategies relating to international trade and economic development.
GEOL 423 - Analysis and interpretation of the Quaternary period's paleoecological data. Patterns of long-term climate variation. Distribution patterns and responses of organisms and ecosystems to Quaternary environmental change.
THEA 423 - Principles and techniques of hand rendering for the entertainment arts.
MUAP 424 - Applied studio instruction in Guitar
MATH 424 - Derivation of the heat, wave, and potential equations; separation of variables method of solution; solutions of boundary value problems by use of Fourier series, Fourier transforms, eigenfunction expansions with emphasis on the Bessel and Legendre functions; interpretations of solutions in various physical settings.
MUSC 424 - The history, materials, and methodologies of piano pedagogy from a perspective of wellness promotion. Special issues pertaining to teaching beginning, intermediate, and advanced students. Observation experience and a supervised teaching practicum.
ENTR 424 - Practicum in Entrepreneurship. This course provides a hands-on experience. Students will choose one of two paths. They will work on their own start-up or they will intern at a start-up business.  Students are responsible for weekly progress reports and other assignments suited to their path.
CIVE 424 - Planning, design and operation of solid and waste collection processing, treatment, and disposal systems including materials, resources and energy recovery systems.
POLS 425 - The policy making role of the Congress including the institutionalization of the House and the Senate, an analysis of congressional behavior, the committee process, and the policy responsiveness of Congress.
ETHN 425 - Major terms and issues in psychology that pertain to race and racism in the United States. General principles of the psychology of racism that are universal. Psychology of the major racial minority groups in the United States examined through their unique cultures, histories, traditions, and collective identities. Research methods for the psychology of racism reviewed as a basis for interpreting research results.
PSYC 425 - Major terms and issues in psychology that pertain to race and racism in the United States. General principles of the psychology of racism that are universal. Psychology of the major racial minority groups in the United States examined through their unique cultures, histories, traditions, and collective identities. Research methods for the psychology of racism reviewed as a basis for interpreting research results.
MRKT 425 - Foundations and structure of retailing; role of the retailing executive; decision making in such problems as site selection, layout, organization, personnel policies, planning stock, buying, pricing, promotion, credit, customer services, merchandise control, budgeting, and research.
GRPH 426 - Focus on the application of advanced graphic design principles and systems in the generation of a self-authored body of written and visual work.
MRKT 426 - Services marketing and the services marketing process. Key concepts, issues and terminology. Specific tools and frameworks enabling communication with other professional marketers and analysis of services marketing situations to make realistic recommendations for managerial action.
CIVE 427 - Analysis of systems for wastewater treatment and disposal.
BRDC 427 - Learn how to pitch, develop, create, publish and promote your own podcast. Choose to produce a mini-season of your own podcast, or contribute episodes to one of the college's podcasts.
CSCE 428 - Introduction to the classical theory of computer science. Finite state automata and regular languages, minimization of automata. Context free languages and pushdown automata, Turing machines and other models of computation, undecidable problems, introduction to computational complexity.
ECEN 428 - Basic analysis and design of solid-state power electronic devices and converter circuitry.
MRKT 428 - Focuses on the development, promotion, and implementation of various forms of consumer experiences. Topics include, but are not limited to sports participation, sporting events, concerts, theatrical performances, museums, renaissance fairs, and theme parks. Topics covered will also include the planning, promotion, and logistical support needed to provide a meaningful experience to consumers.
ADPR 429 - Conduct research and evaluate the findings to develop and present an integrated marketing communications strategy and creative materials for a multimedia advertising and public relations campaign needed by a client. Learn and apply basic business concepts involved in a working ad agency startup. Application of knowledge, experience, and skills learned in previous courses to a new situation.
BRDC 429 - Produce edited video content to fit individual clients needs.
ACTS 430 - Introduction to forecasting in actuarial science. Simple and multiple regression, instrumental variables, time series methods, and applications of methods in forecasting actuarial variables. Interest rates, inflation rates, and claim frequencies.
CRPL 430 - Theory and practice of spatial analysis and visualization with geographic information systems in planning. Selection and use of computer software and data for problem solving and decision making in community and regional planning and related fields. Various practical applications of geographic information systems, visualization, spatial analytics, geospatial mapping, modeling, and geo-database management. Hands-on training
ECEN 430 - Engineering principles of both the mechanical/aero dynamical and electrical components and systems, along with economic and environmental considerations for citing and public policy, to appropriately cover the relevant topics associated with all scales of wind energy implementations.
CERM 431 - Formulation of own problems while working closely with the instructor. Emphasis on critical thinking and the philosophical problems confronting the contemporary ceramics artist.
ACTS 431 - Introduction to statistical learning with actuarial applications using time series models and machine learning techniques. The topics covered include time series models, principal component analysis (PCA), decision tree, and clustering.
BIOC 431 - Structure and function of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids; nature of enzymes; major metabolic pathways of catabolism; and biochemical energy production.
BIOS 431 - Structure and function of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids; nature of enzymes; major metabolic pathways of catabolism; and biochemical energy production.
CHEM 431 - Structure and function of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids; nature of enzymes; major metabolic pathways of catabolism; and biochemical energy production.
MECH 431 - Finite difference methods for steady and transient diffusion and convection-diffusion problems. Finite volume technique for the solution of multi-dimensional fluid flow, and heat and mass transfer problems.
GEOG 431 - The history of cultural geography from von Humboldt through Carl Sauer to the 'new' cultural geographies of Don Mitchell, Gillian Rose and Noel Castree. The current theoretical debates of feminism, post-structuralism, post-colonialism and environmentalism, and the influences of literary and cultural studies in the development of cultural geography and the various methodologies involved.
ANTH 431 - Development of Historical Archaeology and current research in the field.
ALEC 431 - Guided participation in various phases of a public school Agricultural Education or Skilled and Technical Sciences programs.
PHYS 431 - Thermal phenomena from the point of view of thermodynamics, kinetic theory, and statistical mechanics.
CERM 432 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=CERM%20431" title="CERM&#160;431" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CERM 431');">CERM&#160;431</a>.
BIOC 432 - Major metabolic pathways of anabolism, structural and biochemical aspects of biological information flow and use in biotechnology.
BIOS 432 - Major metabolic pathways of anabolism, structural and biochemical aspects of biological information flow and use in biotechnology.
CHEM 432 - Major metabolic pathways of anabolism, structural and biochemical aspects of biological information flow and use in biotechnology.
SCMA 432 - Forecasting and planning for capacity management, materials management, utilization of facilities, managing and scheduling inventory, scheduling people and equipment, tracking people, orders, and equipment to ensure the accommodation of customer needs while maintaining effective and efficient processes.
CERM 433 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=CERM%20432" title="CERM&#160;432" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CERM 432');">CERM&#160;432</a>.
BIOC 433 - Introduction to techniques used in biochemical and biotechnology research, including measurement of pH, spectroscopy, analysis of enzymes, chromatography, fractionation of macromolecules, electrophoresis, and centrifugation.
BIOS 433 - Introduction to techniques used in biochemical and biotechnology research, including measurement of pH, spectroscopy, analysis of enzymes, chromatography, fractionation of macromolecules, electrophoresis, and centrifugation.
CHEM 433 - Introduction to techniques used in biochemical and biotechnology research, including measurement of pH, spectroscopy, analysis of enzymes, chromatography, fractionation of macromolecules, electrophoresis, and centrifugation.
METR 433 - Basic concepts of atmospheric turbulence and fundamental dynamics, thermodynamics, and structure of the atmospheric boundary layer are discussed.  Atmospheric boundary layer parameterizations used in modern weather and climate models are presented.
IDES 433 - Basic set of construction documents for a small residential or commercial space. Set includes demolition, partition, and reflected ceiling plans, power and communication plans, finish and furnishings plans, interior elevations, sections, details and schedules. Expression of design intent as construction documents is reinforced in lecture, structured studio experiences, and site visits.
BIOC 433H - A discovery-based research experience. Hypothesis-driven design of experiments. Data collection and analysis employing techniques used in spectroscopy, bioinformatics, mutagenesis, recombinant DNA, chromatography, enzyme analysis
BIOC 435 - Application of general biochemistry knowledge to current topics in the life sciences; literature research and seminar.
CHEM 435 - Fundamentals of chemical biology with an emphasis on the underlying principles of biomolecular structures, macromolecular-small molecule interactions, including mechanistic aspects of enzymes and cofactors, use of modified enzymes to alter biochemical pathways, and the use of chemical tools for understanding biological processes.
GERO 435 - For students in gerontology and in other fields who are interested in a humanistic approach to understanding significant issues which affect the lives of older people.
ECEN 436 - Provides a solid background in electric machine analysis, covering fundamental concepts, techniques, and methods for analysis and design. Discussion of transformers and presentation of some new systems and applications.
CIVE 436 - Subsoil exploration and interpretation; selection of foundation systems; determination of allowable bearing capacity and settlement; design of deep foundations; pile driving analysis; control of groundwater.
SCMA 436 - Planning and managing projects including project initiating and bidding, planning, budgeting and cost estimation, scheduling, managing risks, and final implementation.
ADPR 437 - Content and discussions on global issues affecting the public relations profession, the professional, the specialized practices, and the engagement of stakeholders simultaneously at home and at transnational levels.
SCMA 437 - Analytical and simulation models for decision making in functional areas such as finance, accounting, marketing, personnel, operations, and inventory. Construction of decision models for practical applications. Emphasis on analyzing alternatives and implementing solutions that result in increased productivity.
CHEM 438 - Introduction to computational chemistry applications including molecular dynamics simulations, density functional theory optimizations, and computational docking of small molecules to protein targets.
CSCE 438 - Theoretical and practical insight into the Internet of Things (IoT). Basics of IoT, including devices and sensors, connectivity, cloud processing and storage, analytics and machine learning, security, business models as well as advanced topics such as localization, synchronization, connected vehicles, and applications of IoT. Includes a group project that provides hands-on interaction with IoT.
TEAC 438 - Discusses the relationships among language and learning, educator and learner discourses, and knowledge and action in connection to sociolinguistics, educational practice, and professional development. Introduction to English language morphology, syntax, phonology, semantics, and pragmatics as well as the language of schooling, its linguistic as well as socio-cultural and cognitive features. Addresses issues of diversity and social justice in education.
MECH 439 - Biomaterials, biocompatibility, and biomaterial surface characteristics (chemistry, surface energy, topography, wettability, etc.). Protein adsorption on biomaterials. Microscale and nanoscale chemical patterning; anisotropic and isotropic micro/nanotopography; cell sensing and response to patterned substrates.
SCMA 439 - Sourcing strategies, concepts and tools in the context of integrated supply chains.Specific issues include make or buy decisions, supplier evaluation and selection, total cost of ownership, contracts and legal terms, negotiation, and purchasing ethics.Discussion of supply chains in the context of international trade.Purchasing options, to include benefits and risks in outsourcing.Information technology for control and coordination in international supply chains.
CRIM 440 - Examines the criminal justice system response to domestic violence/intimate partner violence. A focus on the interactions between battered victims and components of the criminal justice system, as well as the role of the community in addressing and preventing this violence serves as the foundation for this course. Insight into factors contributing to the incidence of intimate partner violence, explore the background/history of domestic violence.
ACTS 440 - Fundamental concepts of financial mathematics, and how those concepts are applied in calculating present and accumulated values for various streams of cash flows. Practical applications of these concepts in loans, bonds, capital budgeting, and portfolio management.
BIOS 440 - Molecular approaches to the study of prokaryotic cell structure and physiology, including growth, cell division, metabolism, and alternative microbial life styles.
MBIO 440 - Molecular approaches to the study of prokaryotic cell structure and physiology, including growth, cell division, metabolism, and alternative microbial life styles.
CSCE 440 - Principles of numerical computing and error analysis covering numerical error, root finding, systems of equations, interpolation, numerical differentiation and integration, and differential equations. Modeling real-world engineering problems on digital computers. Effects of floating point arithmetic.
MATH 440 - Principles of numerical computing and error analysis covering numerical error, root finding, systems of equations, interpolation, numerical differentiation and integration, and differential equations. Modeling real-world engineering problems on digital computers. Effects of floating point arithmetic.
CIVE 440 - Introduction to the design concepts of reinforced concrete building components. The design of flexural and compression members, simple walls, foundations, and floor systems using the latest American Concrete Institute (ACI) design requirements.
BIOC 440 - Introduction and development of structural and physical ideas for students interested in addressing biological and biochemical questions through quantitative, analytical, and structure-based approaches.
PRNT 441 - Further work in intaglio, lithography, and other graphic processes.
POLS 441 - Supreme Court doctrine determining the distribution of powers within the national government and between the national government and the state governments.
MRKT 441 - Strategies to deal with opportunities and challenges of evolving technology and marketing in digital networks of customers, suppliers, and employees; social and mobile marketing; different interactive marketing platforms for e-commerce; the future and strategic, societal, and ethical implications of technology and interactive marketing in e-commerce.
PHYS 441 - Methods and techniques of modern experimental physics.
CHEM 441 - <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20441" title="CHEM&#160;441" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 441');">CHEM&#160;441</a>/841 and the accompanying lab course, <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20443" title="CHEM&#160;443" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 443');">CHEM&#160;443</a>/843, constitute a basic course in inorganic chemistry. Structure, bonding, properties, and reactions of inorganic compounds with emphasis on the relationships and trends that are embodied in the periodic table of the elements.
AERO 441 - Environment in which defense policy is formulated. Requisites for maintaining adequate national security forces; political, economic, and social constraints of the national defense structure; and the overall defense policymaking process.
CRIM 441 - Provides an introduction to the topics and issues that are pertinent to the study of victimology. Prevalence, predictors, and consequences of various forms of victimization, including child abuse, intimate partner violence, rape and sexual assault, stalking, and homicide over the life-course. Examines the nature of criminal justice victimization data, and the issues related to the measurement and costs of victimization.
AERO 441L - Practical application of the principles of leadership and experience in the operation and administration of the cadet wing.
PRNT 442 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=PRNT%20441" title="PRNT&#160;441" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'PRNT 441');">PRNT&#160;441</a>.
METR 442 - Analysis and forecasting of subsynoptic-scale weather systems. Convection, thunderstorm models, severe local storm forecasting techniques, mesoscale convective complexes, vertical cross-sections, isentropic analysis, and weather radar.
CHME 442 - Basic principles of chemical kinetics are coupled with models descriptive of rates of energy and mass transfer for the analysis and design of reactor systems.
CRIM 442 - Addresses issues related to child abuse and neglect investigation, intervention and prevention efforts facilitated through criminal justice system processes. Discusses the history of child maltreatment, definitional challenges, statistical trends, physical and behavioral indicators, mandatory reporting, investigative processes, intervention strategies and prevention efforts.
POLS 442 - Supreme Court doctrine interpreting the First Amendment, covering freedom of speech, assembly, and association; freedom of the press; and freedom of religion.
ANTH 442 - Biological variation of modern humas worldwide through time and space. Standard measurements of phenotypic, e.g. elementary anthropometry. Biological adaptation to environment using recent theoretical perspectives.
MRKT 442 - Application of marketing principles to the solution of a wide variety of problems involving influence of the consumer, choice of channels, marketing legislation, and the management of merchandising, advertising, personal selling, sales promotion, pricing, and marketing research.
CIVE 443 - Matrix analysis methods and computer solutions for indeterminate structures.  Additional topics: static condensation, shear deformations, and non-prismatic members in matrix-based analyses, moment distribution method, load cases and load combinations for buildings and bridges, and influence lines and analysis for moving loads.
CSCE 443 - Covers the cybersecurity threat landscape and the mitigation strategies for Big Data, Cloud environments and Cryptocurrencies. Discusses emerging technologies and frameworks such as End-to-end encryption, Blockchains, Smart Contracts, OpenID Connect and OAuth2.0 as promising solutions to ensure data confidentiality and privacy.
CRIM 443 - A systematic introduction to the study of human trafficking.  Learn about what constitutes human trafficking, theories of victimization as they apply to trafficking, debates about the language and definitions surrounding sex trafficking and prostitution. Discuss the prevalence, predictors, and consequences of various forms of trafficking and critically assess efforts related to measurement, intervention, and prevision.
CHEM 443 - Introduction to typical inorganic chemistry laboratory techniques through the preparation and characterization of inorganic compounds.
THEA 443 - Professional level preparation for Environmental Designers in the Entertainment Arts.
TEAC 444 - Technology issues and the impact on society of access, privacy, confidentiality, ethics and emerging technologies; professional attitude and responsibility in using technology.
CNST 444 - Introduction to safety management for project engineers, project managers, safety teams, and company safety officers. Addresses basic accident and injury models, human accident costs, safety behavior, ethical issues in safety, workers' compensation and EMR, job safety analysis (JSA), project site safety audits, safety promotion and training, emergency planning and response, safety management programs and training, and OSHA record-keeping and reporting.
EMAR 444 - Explores how emerging media arts can expand forms of performance, play, sound, movement, and theatrical relationships in new ways. Considers site, context, location, situation, and audience as central components of the experience design process.
ANTH 444 - Study of human osteology including histology, pathology, biomechanics and taphonomy.
ECEN 444 - Classical (transfer function) and modern (state variable) control techniques. Both time domain and frequency domain techniques are studied. Traditional proportional, lead, lag, and PID compensators are examined, as well as state variable feedback.
METR 444 - Dynamics and conceptual models of mesoscale meteorological phenomena and processes.
SOCI 444 - Historical and cross-cultural approach to population issues by linking changes in fertility and mortality to social institutions. Focuses on the link between population processes and such issues as gender roles, the role of the family, the Third World, and poverty and inequality.
BSAD 444 - Focuses on professional and life skills. Part of the Professional Enhancement Program (PrEP), a series of classes designed to develop professional, confident and polished students for lifelong career success.
MRKT 444 - Examination of physical distribution activities in the marketing mix from the viewpoints of both providers and users of components of logistics systems. Logistics problems of concern to the marketing manager include time and place utility concepts, spatial relationships of markets, channel design, transportation modes, and inventory management.
SCMA 444 - Examination of physical distribution activities in the marketing mix from the viewpoints of both providers and users of components of logistics systems. Logistics problems of concern to the marketing manager include time and place utility concepts, spatial relationships of markets, channel design, transportation modes, and inventory management.
GEOL 445 - Integrative analysis of geophysical data (gravity, magnetics, seismic) with geological information (well logs, tectonic history, etc.)
ASCI 445 - Physiological adaptations to athletic training in equine and canine athletes.  Topics of emphasis include exercise-related adaptations in metabolism, locomotion, the cardiovascular system, musculoskeletal system, and endocrine system.  The roles of nutrition and conditioning programs on exercise.
ENGL 445K - Topics in African poetry, fiction, and/or non-fiction prose.
MECH 446 - The first of two courses in the capstone sequence. Practical application of the engineering design process in a team project focused on a mechanical engineering problem, including design reviews and reports.
GERO 446 - Major social and psychological changes that occur as a function of aging. Both normal and abnormal patterns of developmental change including their implications for behavior.
PSYC 446 - Major social and psychological changes that occur as a function of aging. Both normal and abnormal patterns of developmental change including their implications for behavior.
MECH 446H - The first of two courses in the capstone sequence. Practical application of the engineering design process in a team project focused on a mechanical engineering problem, including design reviews and reports.
GERM 447 - Representative authors of the Enlightenment, Empfindsamkeit, and Storm and Stress.
GERO 447 - Mental health needs of older adults. Identifying both positive mental health and pathological conditions. Treatment interventions effective with older adults and their families.
JOUR 448 - Fellowship at the Omaha World-Herald newspaper.
PSYC 450 - Presentation of advanced, experimental, quasi-experimental, and non-experimental research designs and statistical models employed in psychological and behavioral research. Factorial ANOVA and ANCOVA designs and analysis, with interpretation and presentation of the results in oral and written formats. Create, perform, and present an individual research project.
HIST 450 - Individualized research projects.
EDPS 450 - Advanced study of the behavior and development of preschool and elementary school children.
CRIM 450 - Socially constructed nature of drugs and drug policy, focusing on the variety of ways drugs and crime are connected and the socio-historical context of contemporary US drug policy.
FINA 450 - International aspects of corporate financial management and financial institutions. Decision making by individual businesses in foreign operations. Explores interaction of multinational corporations and world capital markets with emphasis on quantitative techniques. Current theoretical and practical issues in international finance.
SPMC 450 - Apply sports media and communication skills and knowledge to a team- and project-based learning challenge that culminates in a real-world presentation or publication.
PANT 451 - Painting in various media; related concepts of drawing; emphasis on increasingly mature expression and treatment; special techniques and advanced composition.
SCMA 451 - This course expands the basic statistical and analytics tools for developing understanding of advanced methods for data analysis and modeling, business strategy, information technology in order to develop automated structures to support decision making. The course is intended to provide tools for business applications working with data, databases and reports from analytic models. It covers fundamentals of data analysis and inferential statistics as wells as predictive modeling techniques; including linear regression, logistic regression, structural equation modeling, decision trees, artificial neural networks and support vector machines.   The course is intended for students interested in Business Analytics in all Business Majors as well as students who are primarily interested in the applications of data mining from fields such as engineering, basic sciences, sociology, psychology etc.
CSCE 451 - Organization and structure of operating systems. Control, communication, and synchronization of concurrent processes. Processor and job scheduling. Memory organization and management including paging, segmentation, and virtual memory. Resource management. Deadlock avoidance, detection, recovery. File system concepts and structure. Protection and security. Substantial programming.
EDPS 451 - Mental, social, and emotional development of boys and girls during the adolescent period.
PANT 452 - Continuation of <a href="/search/?P=PANT%20451" title="PANT&#160;451" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'PANT 451');">PANT&#160;451</a>.
CYAF 452 - Practical issues in the area of teaching and learning as applied to Family and Consumer Sciences.  Develop teaching and/or learning plans for teaching Family and Consumer Sciences.  Analyze classroom management  practices and develop plans for assessment.
MATH 452 - Theory of directed and undirected graphs. Trees, circuits, subgraphs, matrix representations, coloring problems, and planar graphs. Methods which can be implemented by computer algorithms.
COMM 452 - Theories of mass media, digital media and culture as the basis for investigation of human communication in a variety of contexts and activities.
PHYS 452 - Production of electromagnetic waves, wave guides and cavities, properties of waves, plane waves, reflection and refraction, interference and coherence phenomena, polarization. Optical properties of matter.
CIVE 452 - Theory and application of systems engineering with emphasis on optimization and simulation techniques for evaluating alternatives in water resources developments related to water supply, flood control, hydroelectric power, drainage, water quality, water distribution, irrigation, and water measurement.
TEAC 452W - Focus on practical issues in the area of teaching and learning as applied to the individual disciplines.
FREN 453 - Readings in the major cultural, historical and literary developments from 1789 to 1914
GEOL 453 - Basic concepts of GIS, hands-on experience with various case studies from geology, meteorology, climatology and environmental applications.
METR 453 - Basic concepts of GIS, hands-on experience with various case studies from geology, meteorology, climatology and environmental applications.
MRKT 453 - Marketing problems of international business. Export marketing and domestic marketing of USA products abroad. Influence of international institutions, culture, stage of development, and geography; problems in terminology, product policy, promotion, distribution, research, pricing, and starting marketing operations.
SCMA 453 - Introduction to techniques used for data exploration, data visualization and data mining, which support humans in identifying actionable information from large amounts of data. Demonstrates the process of machine learning and data mining for business applications, including data cleaning, transformation, partitioning, and validation. Methods covered include association rules, collaborative filtering and cluster analysis techniques. Methods will be implemented using relevant computing tools. In addition to unsupervised learning techniques, other machine learning concepts will also be introduced conceptually.
MECH 453 - Robotics synthesize some aspects of human function by the use of mechanisms, sensors, actuators, and computers.
CSCE 453H - Introduction to the areas of user interfaces and user experience through reading and hands-on experiences. Areas covered include the psychology and physiology of design, the process of interface design, cultural values and accessibility, designing for beauty and delight, and dynamic evaluation strategies.
RAIK 453H - Introduction to the areas of user interfaces and user experience through reading and hands-on experiences. Areas covered include the psychology and physiology of design, the process of interface design, cultural values and accessibility, designing for beauty and delight, and dynamic evaluation strategies.
CRIM 454 - Examines the processes, practices, and people involved in the investigation of criminal acts, highlighting recent developments in policy, tactics and technology. Explores theoretical approaches to investigating various crimes, examining how aspects of each approach can benefit investigators. Involves analysis, discussion, and learning how to complete thorough investigations that will ensure best chances for successful case prosecution in court.
BIOS 454 - Nature and characteristics of populations and communities. Interactions within and between populations in community structure and dynamics. Direct and indirect interactions and ecological processes, competition, predation, parasitism, herbivory, and pollination. Structure, functioning and persistence of natural communities, foodweb dynamics, succession, and biodiversity.
NRES 454 - Nature and characteristics of populations and communities. Interactions within and between populations in community structure and dynamics. Direct and indirect interactions and ecological processes, competition, predation, parasitism, herbivory, and pollination. Structure, functioning and persistence of natural communities, foodweb dynamics, succession, and biodiversity.
EDPS 454 - Cognitive psychology and its applications in instruction. Memory, problem solving, cognitive process in reading, research approaches, and applications to teaching.
CSCE 454 - Introduction to the area of human-robot interaction through the reading and discussion of current peer-reviewed articles on topic to include teleoperation, social robotics, and open questions with field-based or aerial robotic systems. Areas covered include: research methods, experimental design, and identification of problems/open questions.
GEOL 455 - A practical introduction to modeling and computational techniques that bridges subdisciplines of geology, with a focus on fluid transport modeling.
ANTH 455 - Introduction to the archaeological methods and theories used to assist in the medico-legal investigation of forensics and criminal behavior as well as international humanitarian forensics and international crimes.
ACCT 455 - Improvisation, professional writing, and professional presentations.
CRIM 456 - Designed to present an overview of the crime of homicide. Attention is given to homicide data, theories of why homicides occur, types of homicide, investigating/solving homicides, prosecuting homicide cases, and the impact on co-victims and society as a whole.  Use critical thinking skills while exploring various investigative techniques.
NUTR 457 - Supervised classroom or outreach experiences in educational or community settings.
EDPS 457 - This course will provide secondary education majors with training in theories and research-based practice in learning, motivation, and assessment that supports teaching and learning within diverse secondary educational settings. Topics include human cognition, theories of motivation, classroom management, and classroom-based assessment generally and as applied to specific secondary education content areas.
PSYC 458 - Introduction to concepts and research in behavior genetics. The role of heredity in normal and disordered behaviors will be examined, with a special emphasis on the mechanisms by which genetic variation influences individual differences in behavior.
IDES 458 - Survey and integration of theory, methods, research and findings from the social, behavioral, and managerial sciences as they relate to the design of work environments. Factors effecting change in the contemporary workplace.
CSCE 458 - Overview of nanoscale communication options. Focus on bio-inspired communication through molecule exchange and biochemical reactions. Different techniques to realize nanomachines will be surveyed in the course, with particular attention to the tools provided by synthetic biology for the programming of biological cooperative systems.
MRKT 458 - This course covers issues faced by sales managers in building, directing, and leading a sales force. Topics include sales forecasting, territory structure design, hiring and managing salespeople, and compensation and performance evaluation systems.
EDPS 459 - Computation and interpretation of measures of central position, variability, and correlation; introduction to sampling, probability, and tests of significance.
MATH 460 - An overview of the development of modern mathematics, particularly the development of algebra, geometry, and calculus. Case studies, such as solvability of polynomial equations, the role of the parallel postulate in geometry, the development of analytic geometry, or additional topics.
PSYC 460 - Issues in human memory within the context of cognitive psychology: attention; short and long term memory; retrieval processes; semantic memory; how long-term memory is involved in comprehension and knowledge; how emotion affects memory; and the major research paradigms used in the study of memory.
ECEN 460 - Labview as a programming language and for applications to acquire and analyze data, to access the network, control lab instruments, and for video and sound applications.
FREN 460 - Survey of writing and film from French-speaking cultures of Africa, the Caribbean, Oceania, Canada, and the Indian Ocean.
CHME 460 - Selected laboratory experiments to demonstrate the theory of the dynamics and control of chemical processes.
PHOT 461 - Advanced work in photography with emphasis on professional practices and self-directed work for exhibition.
FINA 461 - Advanced development of the corporate finance tools used in financial management. Application of quantitative techniques used in financial statement forecasting, advanced capital budgeting, advanced cost of capital estimation, corporate valuation, and external financing policy of the firm.
PSYC 461 - Evaluation and discussion of studies in learning and cognition that draws from the research literature with nonhuman animals.
MNGT 461 - Engage with the theory and practice of strategic human resource management in contemporary organizational settings. Examine the fundamentals of HRM strategic planning and scenario models. Learn the importance of evidenced based decision making, and using HRM analytics such as return on investment. Primary focus on human resource management effectiveness and engagement as a strategic partner in organizations.
CIVE 461 - Development of urban transportation planning objectives and goals. Data collection procedures, land use and travel forecasting techniques, trip generation, trip distribution, modal choice analyses, and traffic assignment. Site development and traffic impact analysis.
ARCH 461 - Issues of contemporary urbanism and the processes of urban design. Experiential nature of cities, role of public policy, ideology, genesis and development of urban form and space.
LARC 461 - Issues of contemporary urbanism and the processes of urban design. Experiential nature of cities, role of public policy, ideology, genesis and development of urban form and space.
BIOS 462 - Introduction to animal behavior stressing the ethological approach. Anatomical and physiological bases of behavior, ontogenetic and phylogenetic observations, and the relations of animal behavior studies to genetics, ecology, taxonomy, and evolution.
PHYS 462 - Basic concepts and experimental foundation for an understanding of the physics of atoms, nuclei, and elementary particles.
PLAS 462 - History, breeding and production of cannabis for medicinal marijuana and hemp for fiber use when grown using a growth room, greenhouse, high tunnel and/or field. Clarification between scientific evidence and casual information.
ECEN 462 - Mathematical descriptions of signals in communication systems. Principles of analog modulation and demodulation. Performance analysis of analog communication systems in the presence of noise.
CHME 462 - Analysis and design of automatic control systems. Dynamic responses of measuring instruments, control elements, stability of control systems, and process equipment included in control loops.
THEA 462 - Focuses on effective business and entrepreneurial practices in the professional entertainment industry including audition preparation, marketing practices, content assembly and presentation, and other business-related techniques required of the contemporary actor.
MATL 462 - Principles of crystallography. Production and properties of X-rays. Interaction of X-rays with atoms and the nature of diffraction (direction and the intensities of diffracted beams). Diffraction patterns and intensity measurements.
MUSC 462I - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462J - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462K - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462L - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462M - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462N - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462P - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462Q - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462R - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462T - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462U - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462V - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462W - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462Y - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 462Z - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MNGT 463 - Design and administration of compensation systems. Deals with determinants of general level of pay, pay structures, wage and salary surveys, job analysis, job evaluation, performance evaluation, benefit plans, and financial incentive systems.
ECEN 463 - Discrete system analysis using Z-transforms. Analysis and design of digital filters. Discrete Fourier transforms.
EDPS 463 - Research methods and findings, concepts, and principles of operant conditioning as related to the experimental analysis of human behavioral events and to the development of behavior engineering technologies.
CRPL 463 - Explores the connection between transportation planning, land use, and urban form. Review the history and policies that have shaped current transportation systems, and the planning tools available to influence this process. Address planning for multiple modes of transportation (car, bus, bike, walk) and the implications of transportation planning for health, equity, and sustainability.
CIVE 463 - Design of signalized intersections, arterial street and network signal systems, and freeway control systems.
POLS 463 - Military action as an instrument of American foreign policy. Constitutional basis of the president's and Congress's war powers; assessments of the role of the White House, Congress, CIA, senior pentagon officials, the American public, and military alliances - NATO and coalitions of the willing - in supporting and directing the use of military action abroad; and the political and strategic consequences of various American applications of military force.
PSYC 464 - Understanding behavioral and psychological phenomena using pharmacological tools. Topics from neurobiology of receptor functioning to the concerted actions of neural mechanisms that are believed to produce such phenomena as fear and anxiety, substance abuse, and neurological disorders.
ADPR 464 - Issues in sports media relations and integrated marketing communications. Background of the unpredictable nature of the sports industry and the relationships with its various publics and the media.
SPMC 464 - Issues in sports media relations and integrated marketing communications. Background of the unpredictable nature of the sports industry and the relationships with its various publics and the media.
MNGT 464 - Explain the process by which organizations forecast employment needs, recruit potential employees, select high potential candidates from applicant pools, assess job performance levels, give feedback, train and develop existing employees, and deal with voluntary and involuntary turnover. Examples of tools used by HR professionals in the staffing process are provided. Evaluate and suggest improvements to real HR recruiting and selection systems based on the information learned in the classroom.
BIOS 465 - Relationship of physiological variables to behavior, an introduction to laboratory techniques in neuropsychology.
PSYC 465 - Relationship of physiological variables to behavior, an introduction to laboratory techniques in neuropsychology.
SPAN 465 - Explore some of the great leitmotifs that have shaped the cultural production of the Spanish speaking Caribbean and the Caribbean diasporas in the U.S. Topics include colonial and postcolonial exploitation, race and transculturation, displacement and migration, environmental issues and natural disasters, among others.
MUSC 465 - Theoretical foundation of jazz composition and performance. Ear training and keyboard skills.
CSCE 465 - Discussion of theoretical and practical insight to wireless communications and wireless networking, current practices, and future trends. Wireless network architectures, mobility management, radio propagation, modulation, power control, antennas, channel access, pricing, and standards.
MNGT 466 - Government regulation of employment and labor relations. Includes laws and agencies relating to employment practices, pay, hours, equal employment opportunity, labor relations, safety, health, pensions, and benefits. Social and economic implications of governmental regulation considered.
ADPR 466 - Key theories related to the study of social media, important social media monitoring and management practices, and advertising/PR opportunities on the most popular social and mobile media platforms.
GERO 467 - Historical overview of programs for the elderly, to examine the national policy process as it relates to the older American, and to review the principles and practices relative to the existing national programs for the aged.
CSCE 467 - In-depth coverage of problems related to software quality, and approaches for addressing them.  Topics include testing techniques, dynamic and static program analysis techniques, and other approaches for verifying software qualities. Tool support for performing testing, verification, and analysis will also be studied.
SOFT 467 - In-depth coverage of problems related to software quality, and approaches for addressing them.  Topics include testing techniques, dynamic and static program analysis techniques, and other approaches for verifying software qualities. Tool support for performing testing, verification, and analysis will also be studied.
FINA 468 - Practical experience in financial asset management. Economic and industry information, money and capital market forecasts, to determine how to select individual securities and how to develop a portfolio strategy.
ECEN 469 - Analysis and design of analog integrated circuits both bipolar and MOS. Basic circuit elements such as differential pairs, current sources, active loads, output drivers used in the design of more complex analog integrated circuits.
MATL 469 - Development of the principles controlling the formation of the structure of engineering materials. Phase diagrams, diffusion, interfaces and microstructures, solidification and diffusional transformation and diffusionless transformations.
CSCE 469 - Introduction to concepts, principles and state-of-the-art methods in creating and maintaining secure software systems.
SOFT 469 - Introduction to concepts, principles and state-of-the-art methods in creating and maintaining secure software systems.
CRPL 470 - Introduces environmental planning, including its history and origins. Major environmental issues throughout the world, and the roles of planning in addressing these problems. Environmental planning process and environmental legislation.
POLS 470 - Development of international norms on human rights and attempts to implement those standards. Emphasis on political process, with attention to law, philosophy, economics, and culture. Coverage of the United Nations, regional organizations, private agencies, and national foreign policies.
MUSC 470 - The processes of teaching singing, basic physiology, and scientific and acoustical terms. Developing processes to teach breathing, phonation, registration, resonance strategies, and sound concept through discussion and evaluation of practice teaching, and on how to manage a private studio.
MUED 470 - Function and contribution of music in the education of students with special needs. Methodology, materials, and practicum for the development of effective musical experiences for Pre-K to 12th graders with various exceptionalities, including giftedness. Federal and state legislation, Individual Education Programs (IEP's), assessments, adaptations of curriculum materials, current methodologies, and research.
ACTS 471 - Further applications of actuarial probabilistic methods to determine net premiums, gross premiums, and reserves in the areas of life and health insurance, and annuities. Other topics include insurance and annuities involving multiple lives, multiple decrements, multi-state models, and pensions.
MUSC 471 - Development of the art song, emphasizing the European and New World traditions from the eighteenth century to the present.
CSCE 471 - Introduction to computational methods for tackling challenges in biological data analysis and modeling and understanding complex systems at the molecular and cellular level. The main topics include bio-sequence analysis, motif finding, structure prediction, phylogenic inference, regulation network modeling, and high-throughput omics data analysis.
COMM 471 - In-depth exploration of theories and research associated with interpersonal communication phenomena presumed to be destructive and dysfunctional.
CYAF 471 - Interdisciplinary approach to the study of human sexuality in terms of the psychological, social, cultural, anthropological, legal, historical, and physical characteristics of individual sexuality and sex in society.
EDPS 471 - Interdisciplinary approach to the study of human sexuality in terms of the psychological, social, cultural, anthropological, legal, historical, and physical characteristics of individual sexuality and sex in society.
PSYC 471 - Interdisciplinary approach to the study of human sexuality in terms of the psychological, social, cultural, anthropological, legal, historical, and physical characteristics of individual sexuality and sex in society.
SOCI 471 - Interdisciplinary approach to the study of human sexuality in terms of the psychological, social, cultural, anthropological, legal, historical, and physical characteristics of individual sexuality and sex in society.
MECH 472 - Hands-on exposure to several aspects of Additive Manufacturing (AM): (1) design and experimentation; (2) process optimization; and (3) materials testing. Coverage of a variety of AM technologies, their advantages and limitations, and how to design for AM. Discussion of both polymer and metal technologies, and exploration of recent applications of AM across multiple industries.
ACTS 472 - Further applications of actuarial probabilistic methods to determine in the areas of interpreting and performing calculations involving profit testing on both traditional life insurance and more modern life insurance such as universal life and equity-linked insurance, as well as pricing and reserving embedded options.
AECN 472 - Further refinement in the development of marketing plan from <a href="/search/?P=AECN%20471" title="AECN&#160;471" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'AECN 471');">AECN&#160;471</a>. Condensation of marketing plan into executive summary and preparation of professional oral presentation. Extensive interaction with the local agribusiness community and participation in national agri-marketing competition.
CRPL 472 - Overview of theory, principles, methodology, and procedures of planning for hazards, disasters, and emergencies in communities and regions, with the goal of reducing vulnerabilities and increasing resiliency in the disaster management cycle: mitigation, preparation, response, and recovery.
THEA 472 - Advanced study of theatre arts and crafts.
CHME 473 - Engineering processes for production of biologics and metabolic products, with emphasis on biopharmaceutical production by bacteria, yeast, and mammalian systems.
CSCE 473 - High-level processing for image understanding and high-level vision. Data structures, algorithms, and modeling. Low-level representation, basic pattern-recognition and image-analysis techniques, segmentation, color, texture and motion analysis, and representation of 2-D and 3-D shape. Applications for content-based image retrieval, digital libraries, and interpretation of satellite imagery.
MATL 473 - Fundamentals of corrosion engineering, underlying principles, corrosion control, and materials selection and environmental control.
ACTS 473 - The theory and applications of short-term actuarial models are explored. Topics include Interpreting and performing calculations involving: (i) some commonly used claim frequency and claim severity distributions as they are applied in so-called aggregate risk models; (ii) coverage modifications; (iii) actuarial ratemaking; and (iv) various loss-reserving techniques for property/casualty insurance policies.
CYAF 474 - Selection, use, and interpretation of assessment instruments for understanding the developmental level of children from birth through age eight. Assessment of reasoning and thinking processes, concept formation, and social cognition.
CRIM 474 - Introduces homeland security and emergency management, including the fundamental concepts of homeland security. Covers the history of homeland security, including the field's complexity through various perspectives. Explores emergency management for a myriad of subfields, including principal hazards and the history of disasters, and the response of the homeland security apparatus. Reviews specific threats ranging from terrorism to natural disasters.
SCMA 474 - Focus on the concepts and theories of Supply Chain Management through their application in real world settings. Engage in decision making through simulated applications and/or work with local/regional organizations to make improvements or explore opportunities for enhancing supply chain practice.
ACTS 475 - Principles and practices of pricing and/or funding and valuation for life, health, property and liability insurance, and annuities and pension plans. Commercially available actuarial modeling software.
MNGT 475 - Learn the principal concepts, frameworks, and techniques of strategic management. Formulate and apply business strategies, analyze cases, explore business simulations, and gain an understanding and appreciation of how strategy affects careers, company performance, and industry attractiveness.
ECEN 475 - The fundamental concepts of satellite communications. Orbits, launching satellites, modulation and multiplexing, multiple access, earth stations, coding, interference and special problems in satellite communications.
FINA 475 - Strategic corporate financial decisions on firm value. Cases and projects that synthesize material from other courses within the finance major and core business classes. The application of financial and business principles in value-based management.
MNGT 475H - Learn the principal concepts, frameworks, and techniques of strategic management. Formulate and apply business strategies, analyze cases, explore business simulations, and gain an understanding and appreciation of how strategy affects careers, company performance, and industry attractiveness.
POLS 476 - Theories of natinalism and ethnic conflict. Case studies of Europe, the Middle East, and Africa. The post-Cold War era as multi-polar and multi-cilizational. The states and different cultures that compete for influence and authority to dominate the &quot;New World order.&quot; The division of the world along ethnic, religious, and class lines rather than by ideology. The future of international politics and the reassessment of the causes of &quot;conflicts of culture&quot; and their containment.
HRTM 476 - Approved professional experience as an entry-level manager in the hospitality industry.
CSCE 476 - Introduction to basic principles, techniques, and tools now being used in the area of machine intelligence. Languages for AI programming introduced with emphasis on LISP. Lecture topics include problem solving, search, game playing, knowledge representation, expert systems, and applications.
MUSC 476 - Literature for solo piano from the early Baroque through the Twentieth Century, with emphasis on musical styles.
CNST 476 - The basic systems related to revenues and expenses associated with record keeping of construction contracts. Managerial accounting related to planning and control of construction projects.
CONE 476 - The basic systems related to revenues and expenses associated with record keeping of construction contracts. Managerial accounting related to planning and control of construction projects.
CRIM 476 - Development of an understanding of terrorism as a political crime. Examines social, political, and psychological aspects of this behavior.
CSCE 477 - Introductory course on cryptography and computer security. Topics: classical cryptography (substitution, Vigenere, Hill and permutation ciphers, and the one-time pad); Block ciphers and stream ciphers; The Data Encryption Standard; Public-key cryptography, including RSA and El-Gamal systems; Signature schemes, including the Digital Signature Standard; Key exchange, key management and identification protocols.
ALEC 477 - Classic and contemporary motivation theories applied to leadership in organizations and communities.
ECEN 478 - Designed to provide a solid grasp of the methods of machine learning (ML) and how to build powerful ML models for discovering statistical regularities from both structured and unstructured data. Offers an introduction to Deep Learning for Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing.
EMAR 479 - Supervised planning and production of thesis projects in emerging media arts.
MECH 480 - Numerical algorithms and their convergence properties in: solving nonlinear equations; direct and iterative schemes for linear systems of equations; eigenvalue problems; polynomial and spline interpolation; curve fitting; numerical integration and differentiation; initial and boundary values problems for Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) and systems of ODEs with applications to engineering; finite difference methods for partial differential equations (potential problems, heat-equation, wave-equation).
CNST 480 - Motivation and productivity improvement methods for management in typical job environments. Methods to improve working environments in the field and office. Procedures and mechanisms to implement human behavior and ergonomics concepts for enhanced productivity and safety.
ECON 481 - Microeconomics of wages and employment; determinants of labor demand and supply; marginal productivity; bargaining theories of wages; labor mobility and allocation among employers; and the impact of unions, government policy, investment in human capital; and discrimination in labor markets.
CHEM 481 - <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20481" title="CHEM&#160;481" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 481');">CHEM&#160;481</a>/881 and 482/882 with accompanying lab 484/884 form a continuous basic course in physical chemistry for students interested in chemistry as a profession. Introduction to quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics; application to problems in atomic and molecular structure and to spectroscopy.
ECEN 482 - Fundamental theory of antennas and radio propagation for wireless communications. Basic antenna characteristics and various antennas and antenna arrays. Basic propagation mechanisms and various channel models, such as Friis free space model, Hata model, lognormal distribution, and multipath model. Includes practical antenna design for high radio frequency (RF) with modeling software tools such as Numerical Electromagnetic Code (NEC) and Advanced Design System (ADS). Design projects will be assigned as the main part of course.
CHME 482 - Introduction to polymer synthesis, structure, polymer physics, thermodynamics, kinetics, polymer characterization techniques, polymer properties and applications.
SOCI 482 - Sociological perspectives on leadership and its multiple dimensions related to individuals, group dynamics, social structures, and contextual factors.
MUCP 483 - Applied studio instruction in music composition.
ADPR 483 - How to improve individual portfolios of creative work and execute a variety of creative pieces that demonstrate improvement in their collections.
ADPR 484 - The managerial philosophy, techniques, and processes in advertising. Organizational structures, integrated marketing communications, strategic planning, marketing planning, advertising planning, advertising research, budgeting, and decision paradigms.
MUCP 484 - Applied studio instruction in music composition.
ANTH 484 - Collection, management, visualization, and analysis of quantitative anthropological data. Exploratory and confirmatory data analysis. Data analytics.
CSCE 484 - Preparation for the senior design project. Professional practice through familiarity with current tools, resources, and technologies. Professional standards, practices and ethics, and the oral and written report styles used specifically in the field of data science.
GLST 484 - Examination of various readings and completion of a post-graduation portfolio, global studies portfolio, and semester project that integrates and applies theories, concepts, and processes learned throughout the global studies major.
ECEN 484 - Network security and cryptographic protocols.  Classical encryption techniques, block ciphers and stream cyphers, public-key cryptography, authentications digital signatures, key management and distributions, network vulnerabilities, transport-level security, IP security.
WMNS 485 - Introduction to feminist and gender theory. Important theoretical frameworks upon which Women's Studies is based and the implications of these theories in practice.
AGRI 485 - Application and integration of scientific principles and knowledge gained from courses, peer to peer and student to faculty discussions, internships, and other aspects of the applied science degree program.
MUSC 485 - Forms, styles, composers, and aesthetics of the classic period.
ECON 485 - Government regulation of employment and labor relations. Includes laws and agencies relating to employment practices, pay, hours, equal employment opportunity, labor relations, safety, health, pensions, and benefits. Social and economic implications of governmental regulation considered.
CSCE 486 - Preparation for the senior design project.  Professional practice through familiarity with current tools, resources, and technologies.  Professional standards, practices and ethics, and the oral and written report styles used specifically in the field of computer science.
CHME 486 - Thermodynamic and kinetic principles of electrochemistry are applied to the design and analysis of electrochemical processes, including chemical production, batteries, fuel cells, and corrosion prevention.
MUCP 486 - Development of basic professional competency in the areas of scoring and music preparation for small jazz ensembles of varying instrumentations.
JOMC 486 - Legal basis for freedom of speech and press.  Limitations imposed upon rights by statue, common law and court decisions.  Resolving conflicts between those rights and other constitutional rights.  Enhancing critical-thinking and writing skills. Roles, rights, and responsibilities of mass media in a free society through analysis of cases.
CSCE 486H - Preparation for the senior design project.  Professional practice through familiarity with current tools, resources, and technologies.  Professional standards, practices and ethics, and the oral and written report styles used specifically in the field of computer science.
ENGL 487 - Integration and application of skills and knowledge gained in courses taken for the English major.  Involves synthesis, reflection, and a substantive final writing project.
JOMC 487 - Interrelationships between the American mass media and society, integrating ethics, theories and contemporary issues.
CSCE 487 - A substantial computer science project requiring design, planning and scheduling, teamwork, written and oral communications, and the integration and application of technical and analytical aspects of computer science and software engineering.
MECH 487 - Design, execution, and evaluation of physical experiments in the areas of thermodynamics, fluid mechanics, and heat transfer.
ANTH 487B - Survey of vocabulary, techniques, and ideas needed to research major materials found in archaeological sites.
CSCE 488 - Preparation for the senior design project. Professional practice through familiarity and practice with current tools, resources, and technologies; professional standards, practices, and ethics; and oral and written report styles used in the computer engineering field.
MECH 488 - Design projects and physical experiments in the area of machine design and kinematics.
CSCE 488H - Preparation for the senior design project. Professional practice through familiarity and practice with current tools, resources, and technologies; professional standards, practices, and ethics; and oral and written report styles used in the computer engineering field.
ADPR 489 - Conduct research and evaluate the findings to develop and present an integrated marketing communications strategy and creative materials for a multimedia advertising and public relations campaign needed by a client. Application of knowledge, experience, and skills learned in previous courses to a new situation.
PSYC 489 - Current issues in theory and research in developmental psychology examined (e.g., emotional development, the changing American family, the preschool years, social understanding), along with methods of research in these and other areas.
COMM 489 - Examination of essays and completion of a semester project that integrates and applies theories, concepts and processes learned throughout the communication studies major.
CSCE 489 - A substantial computer engineering project requiring hardware-software co-design, planning and scheduling, teamwork, written and oral communications, and the integration and application of technical and analytical aspects of computer science and computer engineering.
CONE 489 - An integrated, comprehensive project.
ARCH 489 - Comprehensive overview of the complementary and contributory relationship between research and design, with a particular emphasis on design research as a projective activity.
IDES 489 - Comprehensive overview of the complementary and contributory relationship between research and design, with a particular emphasis on design research as a projective activity.
LARC 489 - Comprehensive overview of the complementary and contributory relationship between research and design, with a particular emphasis on design research as a projective activity.
CIVE 489 - Course provides senior civil engineering students with the opportunity to apply engineering concepts and principles to a comprehensive design project of multiple sub-disciplinary nature.  The principal objectives are for students to develop an understanding of the entire life-cycle of civil engineering projects with emphasis on the development of a unified and sustainable design that addresses the client's needs; project team work; strong engineer-client relationships; and effective project communications.
SOCI 489 - A research experience focusing on developing a research question, identifying or collecting appropriate data, analyzing data, and writing an original research paper.
CNST 489 - Execution of a project from conceptual design and location through estimating, bidding, site layout, planning and scheduling, cost control, records management, and project completion and documentation.
MATH 489 - Markov chains, continuous-time Markov processes, the Poisson process, Brownian motion, introduction to stochastic calculus.
GRAS 490 - A structured practical experience under the supervision of a professional in grazing livestock systems.
MUSR 490 - Public solo music recital.
MRKT 490 - Topic varies.
THEA 491 - Selected projects in directing, theatre management, or stage management in University Theatre or Theatrix.
ECEN 491 - Special topics in the emerging areas of electrical, computer, and electronics engineering which may not be covered in other courses in the electrical and computer engineering curriculum.
CIVE 491 - Special topics in emerging areas of civil engineering which may not be covered in other courses in the civil engineering curriculum.
BIOS 491 - Topics vary.
JOMC 491 - Topics vary each term.
JOUR 491 - Topics vary each term.
SPAN 491 - Language, literature, and culture.
GRPH 491 - Studio-based course exploring subject matter in emerging areas of graphic design.
ENGR 491 - Topics vary.
JOMC 492 - Topics vary every term.
ARCH 492 - Group investigation of a topic in architecture originated by the instructor.
DSGN 492 - Group investigation of a topic in design.
GERO 492 - Special studies designed around the interests and needs of the individual student in such areas as the psychology, sociology, economics, or politics of aging, as well as operation of various service systems. May be either a literature review project or a field project in which experience is gained in the community identifying and analyzing needs and services related to older people.
MECH 492 - Special topics in mechanical engineering and related areas.
ANTH 492 - Topics vary.
CSCE 492H - Topics vary
CYAF 493 - Current issues that today's families experience. Topics vary and include, for example: Gender and family, low-income families, fathers and fatherhood, families with children who have disabilities.
CSCE 493 - Innovative team projects executed under the guidance of members of the faculty of the Department of Computer Science and Managing Director of the CSCE Innovation Lab. Students will work in teams and collaborate with CSE research faculty, supervising MS students, and sponsors that include private sectors and UNL faculty to design and develop real-world systems.
ENGR 493 - Focuses on developing and fostering community, gaining exposure to industry leaders and mentors, and enhancing self-awareness and leadership skills.
CSCE 493A - Innovative team projects executed under the guidance of members of the faculty of the Department of Computer Science and Managing Director of the CSCE Innovation Lab. Work in teams and collaboration with CSE research faculty and sponsors that include private sectors and UNL faculty to design and develop real-world systems to solve interdisciplinary problems.
ECEN 494 - A substantial design project that allows application of electrical engineering skills to a multidisciplinary project. Requires project definition, planning and scheduling, effective written and oral communication of technical ideas, incorporation of realistic constraints and engineering standards, functioning effectively on a multidisciplinary team, and applying new ideas as needed to meet project goals.
MATH 494 - Directed reading or research with a faculty member.
MUSC 494 - Supervised practicum and/or field work in an area related to music under the direction of a university staff/faculty member and a cooperating professional in the particular area(s) of interest.
THEA 494 - Structured internships with professional organizations or individuals outside the University of Nebraska-Lincoln campus or with Nebraska Educational Telecommunications.
GERO 494 - Opportunity for students to share field experiences; to obtain guidance concerning various relationships with agency, staff, and clients; and to develop a broadly based perspective of the field of aging.
ATHC 494 - Practical experience in coaching in youth sports and interscholastic athletic programs.
ECEN 495 - A substantial design project that allows application of electrical engineering skills to a multidisciplinary project. Requires project definition, planning and scheduling, effective written and oral communication of technical ideas, incorporation of realistic constraints and engineering standards, functioning effectively on a multidisciplinary team, and applying new ideas as needed to meet project goals.
CRIM 495 - Faculty-guided research in an area of mutual interest to the student and the instructor. Students are responsible for selecting the area of inquiry prior to contacting the instructor.
METR 495 - Application of meteorology-climatology learning with on-the-job training.
EMAR 495 - Structured internships with professional companies, organizations or individuals on or off campus.
PGAM 495 - PGA Golf Management internships will provide students with an opportunity to enhance their professional skills while contributing meaningful employment and expanding their career networks and pathways in the golf profession.
JOMC 495 - Complete an internship for credit in a work experience related to the student's major.
ARTP 495 - Advanced work in special internship placements.
GRPH 495 - Advanced level Internship in the field of graphic design exploring areas of study relating to professional development.
HRHA 495 - A structured, experiential learning opportunity focused on human rights at a local, national or international organization with an emphasis on career development.
CSCE 495 - Experiential learning in conjunction with an approved industrial or government agency under the joint supervision of an outside sponsor and a faculty advisor.
ALEC 495A - Internship in a selected agribusiness, industry, or agency. Collaboration development of a training program and leadership activities.
ALEC 495B - Internship experience with an organization selected by student and approved by instructor in an agricultural or environmental sciences organization where the focus of the internship is directly related to communications.
CYAF 496 - Individual projects in research, literature review, or creative production may or may not be an extension of course work.
EDPS 496 - Complete education-based experiences in research or applied settings under faculty supervision.
MRST 496 - Individual or group project in research, literature review, or extension of course work.
DANC 496 - Field work in dance, dance teaching, or a specifically arranged course of dance study under the supervision of a faculty adviser.
ALEC 496 - Projects to research, literature review, or extension of course work.
AGRI 496 - Individual or group projects in activities such as research, literature review, extension of course work, or preparation of teaching materials.
BRDC 496 - Independent study; topic and assignments to be arranged between a student and supervising faculty member.
ENGL 496 - Directed reading.
ENSC 496 - Individual or group project in research, literature review, or extension of course work.
ENTO 496 - Individual or group projects in research, literature review, or extension of course work.
ENVR 496 - Independent reading or research under direction of a faculty member.
ETHN 496 - Independent research or reading under direction by a faculty member.
FREN 496 - Special research project or reading program under the direction of a staff member in the department.
GEOL 496 - Independent study under direction of a faculty member.
MUED 496 - Individual, scholarly study designed to enable a student to pursue a selected topic in music education with the direction and guidance of a faculty member.
NRES 496 - Individual or group projects in research or management.
NUTR 496 - Individual projects in research, literature review, or creative production.
PGAM 496 - Requires an individual or group project in research or literature review, or extension of course work in the field during the internship experience.
SPAN 496 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty member.
SPMC 496 - Independent study; topic and assignments to be arranged between a student and supervising faculty member.
TMFD 496 - Individual projects in research, literature review, or creative production.
VBMS 496 - Individual or group projects in research, literature review, or extension of course work under supervision and evaluation of a departmental faculty member.
CRIM 496 - Identify and explore a contemporary issue relevant to crime and justice policy. Develop multimedia packages designed to educate and advocate for a chosen policy action (e.g., adoption, reform, replacement). The purpose is to integrate previous course experiences and skills, independent research, and community stakeholder engagement (via interviews) into an activity that demonstrates critical thinking, synthesis, and evaluation.
IDES 496 - Individual investigation of a topic in interior design.
PHOT 496 - Problems in technique and expression in photography.
ARCH 496 - Individual investigation of a topic in architecture.
CERM 496 - Problems in technique and expression in ceramics.
DRAW 496 - Independent Study in Drawing
GRPH 496 - Independent study course exploring subject matter in specialized areas of graphic design.
PANT 496 - Independent Study in Painting
PRNT 496 - Independent study in printmaking.
SCLP 496 - Independent Study in Sculpture
ARTP 496 - Problems in technique and expression for the advanced undergraduate.
CRPL 496 - Individual or group investigations of problems relating to community and regional planning.
PSYC 497 - Development as an undergraduate learning assistant in Psychology courses.
MUED 497D - Supervised teaching experiences in schools with accompanying seminar which focuses on: teacher certification, teacher and students rights and responsibilities, proper conduct of teachers, selected legal aspects of education, methods of communicating with parents and community members, and current issues which impact education.  <a href="/search/?P=MUED%20897" title="MUED&#160;897" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUED 897');">MUED&#160;897</a> does not apply towards the master of music degree.
CRIM 497H - Independent research project supervised by department/school faculty.
CYAF 497J - Supervised teaching experience in schools.
MUED 497T - Supervised teaching experiences in schools with accompanying seminar which focuses on: teacher certification, teacher and students rights and responsibilities, proper conduct of teachers, selected legal aspects of education, methods of communicating with parents and community members, and current issues which impact education.  <a href="/search/?P=MUED%20897" title="MUED&#160;897" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUED 897');">MUED&#160;897</a> does not apply towards the master of music degree.
CERM 498 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
DRAW 498 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
PANT 498 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
PHOT 498 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
PRNT 498 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
SCLP 498 - Focused supplemental effort in subject area of co-registered course, resulting in increased quantity and quality of artwork.
CSCE 498 - Independent project executed under the guidance of a member of the faculty of the School of Computing. Solution and documentation of a computer problem demanding a thorough knowledge of either the numerical or nonnumerical aspects of computer science.
BIOS 498 - Independent study and laboratory or field investigation of a specific problem.
ANTH 498 - Independent research under direction of a faculty member.
MECH 498 - Faculty-supervised research.
CYAF 498 - Undergraduate Creative Research Experience (UCARE), Research Experience For Undergraduates (REU), and non-UCARE research and/or creative activity.
NUTR 498 - Participation in an ongoing research project. Select from foods, human nutrition education, small animal, or survey research areas.
PLAS 498 - Carry out and report on a research project.
SOIL 498 - Carry out and report on a research project.
ECEN 498 - Research in a selected area of electrical engineering under the supervision and guidance of an Electrical and Computer Engineering faculty member.
CIVE 498 - Independent research work and written findings in a selected area of civil engineering under the supervision and guidance of a Civil &amp; Environmental Engineering faculty member.
CNST 498 - Individual or small group investigation of topics in construction management.
FDST 498 - Conduct a scholarly research project investigating a specific problem.
BIOC 498 - Research on a specific biochemical project under the supervision of a faculty member.
PSYC 498 - Independent research or participation in a faculty research initiative.
CERM 499 - Culminating experience in Area of Emphasis to produce work for the Capstone Art Exhibition.
DRAW 499 - Culminating experience in Area of Emphasis to produce work for the Capstone Art Exhibition.
ARTP 499 - Culminating experience for Art majors with an Interdisciplinary option to produce work for the Capstone Art Exhibition.
PANT 499 - Culminating experience in Area of Emphasis to produce work for the Capstone Art Exhibition.
PHOT 499 - Culminating experience in Area of Emphasis to produce work for the Capstone Art Exhibition.
PRNT 499 - Culminating experience in Area of Emphasis to produce work for the Capstone Art Exhibition.
SCLP 499 - Culminating experience in Area of Emphasis to produce work for the Capstone Art Exhibition.
CRIM 499 - Part of the department's Student Outcomes Assessment effort. Designed to monitor the department's performance and to identify changes needed.
CHME 499 - Research and development problems which include literature surveys, equipment design and operation, and development of correlations.
NRES 499 - Independent engagement in the research process in natural resources to conduct a scholarly research project and write an undergraduate thesis.
BIOC 499 - Conduct a scholarly research project and write an undergraduate thesis.
BIOS 499 - Independent research leading to a thesis.
CHEM 499 - Independent research leading to a thesis.
CLAS 499 - Independent research leading to a thesis
GEOL 499 - Independent research leading to a thesis.
GLST 499 - Independent research leading to a thesis.
METR 499 - Independent research leading to a thesis.
POLS 499 - Independent research leading to a thesis.
PSYC 499 - Independent work on an undergraduate thesis.
SOCI 499 - Independent research leading to a thesis.
WMNS 499 - Independent research leading to a thesis.
CRIM 499A - This course is an integrative online senior seminar to be taken during the final semester. It facilitates the transition to criminal justice professional through the use of specific assignments focused on areas of resume development, continuation of research, and reflection of academic progress.
BRDC 499H - Students negotiate an independent study honors contract with an adviser.
SPMC 499H - Independent research/creative activity project; topics vary.
CHME 499H - Honors thesis research project meeting the requirements of the University Honors Program. Independent research project executed under the guidance of a member of the faculty of the Department of Chemical Engineering which contributes to the advancement of knowledge in the field. Culminates in the presentation of an honors thesis to the department and college.
CYAF 499H - Honor thesis in Child, Youth and Family Studies.
ECEN 499H - Honors thesis research project meeting the requirements of the University Honors Program. Independent research project executed under the guidance of a member of the faculty of the Department of Electrical Engineering which contributes to the advancement of knowledge in the field. Culminates in the presentation of an honors thesis to the department and college.
ECON 499H - Conduct a scholarly research project and write a University Honors Program thesis.
EDPS 499H - Conduct a scholarly research project and write a University Honors Program or undergraduate thesis.
FINA 499H - Conduct a scholarly research project. Write a University Honors Program or undergraduate thesis.
MECH 499H - Honors thesis research project meeting the requirements of the University Honors Program. Independent research project executed under the guidance of a member of the faculty of the Department of Mechanical Engineering which contributes to the advancement of knowledge in the field. Culminates in the presentation of an honors thesis to the department and college.
MRKT 499H - Conduct a scholarly research project and write a University Honors Program or undergraduate thesis.
NRES 499H - Independent engagement in the research process in natural resources to conduct a scholarly research project and write an undergraduate thesis as a participant in the University Honors Program.
NUTR 499H - Conduct a scholarly research project and write a University Honors Program or undergraduate thesis.
TEAC 499H - Conduct a scholarly research project and write a University Honors Program or undergraduate thesis.
ANTH 499H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
BIOS 499H - Independent research leading to an honors thesis.
CLAS 499H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
COMM 499H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
GEOL 499H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
METR 499H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
POLS 499H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
PSYC 499H - Independent work on a thesis.
WMNS 499H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
SOCI 499H - Independent research leading to a thesis.
ARCH 500 - Introduction to architectural design through spatial and formal projects using representational techniques. A series of collaborative and individual projects introduce design process, iteration, tectonics, representation, and structure as fundamental aspects of design that relate architecture to the human subject.
ARCH 510 - Vertically integrated 5th and 6th year studio.
ARCH 527 - Introduction to parametric and related basic computational concepts for design.  Explorations in specific parametric modeling software techniques.
ARCH 561 - Issues of contemporary urbanism and the processes of urban design. Experiential nature of cities, role of public policy, ideology, genesis and development of urban form and space.
ARCH 589 - Comprehensive overview of the complementary and contributory relationship between research and design, with a particular emphasis on design research as a projective activity.
ARCH 592 - Group investigation of a topic in architecture originated by the instructor.
ARCH 596 - Individual investigation of a topic in architecture.
ARCH 610 - Vertically integrated 5th and 6th year studio.
ARCH 613 - First semester of a year-long design-thesis project initiated in <a href="/search/?P=ARCH%20544" title="ARCH&#160;544" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'ARCH 544');">ARCH&#160;544</a> and developed in conjunction with a faculty mentor. Initial visual and written studies addressing current issues relevant to the discipline of architecture to be completed in the following semester.
DPLH 691 - Exploration of professionalism and professional opportunities in plant health and importance of leadership development.
DPLH 695 - Professional experience in integrating interdisciplinary knowledge, practical problem-solving, and developing and implementing integrated plant and pest management systems.
LAW 777C - Provide an opportunity to build on the knowledge and skills developed during prior clinical experience.  May be assigned more complex cases, projects or tasks, and may be given opportunities to assist in administering a clinical course, including mentoring students, reviewing student drafts and performances, and presenting course material.
EDPS 800 - Purposes and characteristics of research process, selection of research problems in education and social sciences, critical review of published research, research ethics and institutional review, sampling methods, threats to validity in research.
TEAC 800 - Contemporary educational research from multiple theoretical perspectives.
CRPL 800 - Field of community and regional planning introduced and studied in relation to the history of cities, urbanization, and regionalization. Origins and evolution of American urban and regional planning practice. The planning process as a response to social, political, physical, and economic factors is analyzed. Introduces the community comprehensive planning process, plan implementation, and functional areas of planning.
MECH 801 - Basic topics in real analysis and linear algebra with examples of applications from diverse branches of engineering and applied physics.
DRAW 801 - Graduate-level work in various drawing media and concepts.
BIOC 801 - Structure and function of proteins, carbohydrates, lipids and nucleic acids; enzymes; principal metabolic pathways; and biochemical expression of genetic information.
ENGR 801 - Explore EER career paths; identify necessary knowledge, skills, and abilities; and plan an aligned graduate experience. Become familiar with the professional norms and ethical principles and practices related to research. Build one's academic community networks (e.g., DBER, engineering discipline). Develop oral communication skills appropriate for EER. Develop reflexive ability to make meaning of graduate experiences.
CRIM 801 - Provides an overview of the major dimensions of crime in the U.S. Content areas included are the epidemiology of crime, the costs of crime and typologies of crime and criminals.
POLS 801 - Introduction to epistemological and methodological underpinnings of political science as a discipline. Consider what it means for political science to be a science and examine the variety of methods political scientists use in their research. Write a research design for a major research project.
HIST 801A - Explore career diversity options for humanities and social sciences. Assemble application materials. Build professional networks. Practice interview skills.
SPED 801B - Legal and ethical requirements for educating exceptional learners; identification, referral, and placement procedures; development and use of the Individual Education Program; strategies for teaching and accommodating academic and behavior of a range of exceptional and other at-risk learners in the secondary school.
HIST 801C - Develop research communication and grant writing skills.
ENGL 801K - Overview of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer drama and popular culture.
DRAW 802 - Graduate-level work in various drawing media and concepts.
EMGT 803 - Covers the evolution of technical management and the transition from engineering and technical work to engineering and technology management. Emphasizes developing a broad understanding of the management functions of planning, organizing, leading and controlling in a technological environment. Engineering ethics and managing technology are also covered.
ACCT 803 - The economic characteristics of accounting information as they relate to the role played by financial accounting reports in allocating capital.
POLS 803 - Training in the teaching of political science.
TEAC 803B - Professional development experiences including inquiry-driven projects, on-line discussions and standards-driven professional portfolios.
ACCT 804 - Special accounting problems relating to the preparation of combined and consolidated financial statements for accounting entities with branch offices and with subsidiaries, both domestic and foreign; partnership accounting; accounting for foreign currency transactions and translations; governmental and not-for-profit accounting.
EMGT 804 - Provides a framework for the student to become proficient in recognizing, understanding, and predicting morale and discipline when managing in the technology industry.  Includes case studies related to engineering, technology, and sciences, emphasizing the prevention of and solutions to problems unique to technical employees by means of appropriate policies, techniques, practices, and procedures.  Group dynamics from the psychological and sociological perspectives of varying corporate situations related to engineering and science will also be examined.
ALEC 804 - Problems in instructional planning and methodology and in organizing secondary and continuing education, FFA, and agriculture experience programs.
BIOS 804 - Introduction to the ecology and evolution of animal behavior.
MATH 804T - Problem solving, reasoning and proof, and communicating mathematics. Development of problem solving skills through the extensive resources of the American Mathematics Competitions. Concepts of logical reasoning in the context of geometry, number patterns, probability and statistics
FDST 805 - Nature, physiology, and interactions of microorganisms in foods. Introduction to food-borne diseases, the effect of food processing systems on the microflora of foods, principles of food preservation, food spoilage, and foods produced by microorganisms. Food plant sanitation and criteria for establishing microbial standards for food products.
ENTO 805 - Introduction to insects (diversity, identification, morphology and physiology, ecology and behavior, and pest management).   Beneficial, economic, and medical importance of insects.
BIOS 805 - Ecological principles at the populations, community, and ecosystem levels. Population growth, meta-population dynamics, competitive and predatory interactions, temporal and spatial variation in community food webs, tropic cascades, patterns and mechanisms underlying species diversity, ecosystem processes, nutrient cycling, and global change.
CRIM 805 - Designed to give an analytical perspective to the history, development, implementation and future of critical issues in the field of corrections. Primary focus will be directed toward an exploration of the various theoretical approaches to corrections and the research intended to support or refute these perspectives.
SLPA 805 - Introduction to research in special education and related paradigms in order to conduct and write a systematic literature review. Includes instruction in conducting database searches and finding relevant literature, methods for evaluating the quality of evidence for effectiveness, developing codebooks and training for reliability, and writing in APA style.
SPED 805 - Introduction to research in special education and related paradigms in order to conduct and write a systematic literature review. Includes instruction in conducting database searches and finding relevant literature, methods for evaluating the quality of evidence for effectiveness, developing codebooks and training for reliability, and writing in APA style.
EMGT 805 - Provides an overview of the role that groups and teams play in achieving organizational success. Essential theories and concepts provide a framework for understanding and analyzing how teams are formed and function, including socioemotional and sociotechnical considerations. Critical issues in leading teams and managing team effectiveness are examined, including but not limited to power, influence, and conflict.
ASCI 806 - Orientation in the animal science graduate program involving introduction to departmental research program, philosophy, and policies. Discussion of elements of an effective seminar; experience and critique in oral presentation of research data.
BIOS 806 - Biotic and abiotic factors as they influence insect development, behavior, distribution, and abundance.
ENTO 806 - Biotic and abiotic factors as they influence insect development, behavior, distribution, and abundance.
ECEN 806 - Symmetrical components and fault calculations, power system stability, generator modeling (circuit view point), voltage control system, high voltage DC transmission, and system protection.
TMFD 807 - Theoretical approach to the history of dress from ancient times through the twentieth century; examining dress in the context of social, economic, and artistic development of Western culture.
ACCT 808 - Provides a broad framework for using financial statement analysis to evaluate a firm's business operations and to predict its future condition using concepts and principles learned in previous accounting and finance courses.
ECEN 808 - Applied electromagnetics: Transmission lines in digital electronics and communication. The quasistatic electric and magnetic fields: electric and magnetic circuits and electromechanical energy conversion. Guided waves: rectangular and cylindrical metallic waveguides and optical fibers. Radiation and antennas: line and aperture antennas and arrays.
MECH 808 - Design methodology for various heat exchangers employed in mechanical engineering. Introduction to computer-aided design as applied to heat exchangers. Practical exercises in actual design tasks.
MATH 808 - Analysis of the connections between college mathematics and high school algebra and geometry.
THEA 809 - Projects in scene design, costume design, lighting design, sound design, or technical direction. Planning and execution of designs for actual production.
ALEC 809 - A change agent influences innovative decisions in a direction deemed desirable by a business, agency, or organization.  Overview of key characteristics of change agents as well as processes by which they influence the introduction, adoption, and diffusion of technological changes in society. Prepares  those who are responsible for bringing about change in their community and within the Extension system.
NRES 809 - The earth as a system and the &quot;real world&quot; applications of fundamental physical science processes in this system. Interaction of energy and matter in the geosphere, in the hydrosphere, and in the atmosphere. The earth's relationships to the sun, moon, and other astronomical objects in the solar system.
BIOS 809 - Discussion of skills needed to be a professional scientist including: writing, submitting, editing, and revision of journal articles and grant proposals; preparation or oral and poster presentations; and ethical issues in research and teaching.
PHIL 809 - Intensive study of basic problems in the Theory of Knowledge: the nature of knowledge, the analysis of perception and memory, the justification of induction, the problem of how one knows other minds, and the analysis of a prior knowledge. Readings from recent work.
AGRO 809A - The application of fundamental genetics principles in inheritance, gene mapping and DNA analysis to decision making by plant breeders with the goal of improving disease resistance in crop cultivars.  Learning is structured by the genetics discovery story told in published research articles and the thinking process of plant breeders who will use these discoveries in their work.
HORT 809A - The application of fundamental genetics principles in inheritance, gene mapping and DNA analysis to decision making by plant breeders with the goal of improving disease resistance in crop cultivars.  Learning is structured by the genetics discovery story told in published research articles and the thinking process of plant breeders who will use these discoveries in their work.
AGRO 809B - The application of basic science and technology by plant genetic engineering experts with the goal of teaming with plant breeders to improve disease resistance in crop cultivars.  Learning is structured by the genetics discovery story told in published research articles and the thinking process of genetic engineers and plant breeders who will use these discoveries in their work.
HORT 809B - The application of basic science and technology by plant genetic engineering experts with the goal of teaming with plant breeders to improve disease resistance in crop cultivars.  Learning is structured by the genetics discovery story told in published research articles and the thinking process of genetic engineers and plant breeders who will use these discoveries in their work.
ARCH 810 - Vertically integrated 5th and 6th year studio.
ENTO 810 - Overview of insects. Insect diversity, insect structure and function, insect ecology and behavior, and the beneficial and detrimental roles insects play. Integrating the study of insects into the classroom to enhance science education.
ECEN 810 - Probability space, random vectors, multivariate distributions, moment generating functions, conditional expectations, discrete and continuous-time random processes, random process characterization and representation, linear systems with random inputs.
MECH 810 - Dynamics and kinematics of laminar flows of viscous fluids. Development of the equations of motion in general and some exact solutions to them. Flows with small to large (laminar) Reynolds numbers including fundamental concepts of the boundary layer on a flat plate.
AGRO 811 - Basic steps required to produce genetically engineered crops, genetic engineering procedures used to develop current crops and innovations that will lead to future products, genetic engineering process and predicting how changes in different steps of the process influence the final crop, and application of genetic engineering technology to plan the development of new genetically engineered crops.
CSCE 811 - Concepts of relational and object-oriented data modeling through the process of data model development including conceptual, logical and physical modeling. Techniques for identifying and creating relationships between discrete data members, reasoning about how data modeling and analysis are incorporated in system design and development, and specification paradigms for data models. Common tools and technologies for engineering systems and frameworks for integrating data. Design and analysis of algorithms and techniques for identification and exploration of data relationships, such as Bayesian probability and statistics, clustering, map-reduce, and web-based visualization.
METR 811 - Equations of thermodynamics, momentum, and continuity are derived and applied to atmospheric motion.  Energy conservation, flows, and conversions.
PHYS 811 - Fundamentals of applications of linear algebra, tensor analysis, complex analysis, ordinary differential equations and special functions to problems in theoretical physics with emphasis on special relativity, electrodynamics and nonrelativistic quantum mechanics.
CNST 811 - Ownership and administration of companies focusing on documentation and specifications, contracts, take-offs, estimating, bidding, bonds, insurance, project management and administration, scheduling, time and cost management, labor law and labor relations, and project safety.
SCLP 811 - Graduate-level work in various sculpture media and concepts.
CRIM 811 - Provides an overview of key research areas on prevalence, predictors, and consequences of various forms of victimization. Develop a critical understanding and appreciation of the development and current state of theories of victimology, measurement of different types of victimization, and quantitative and qualitative results that have been used to inform research in the field. Learn how to critically analyze and interpret primary research regarding victimization.
ANTH 812 - Cross-cultural variation in family, marriage, and kinship and theories that account for variation in these fundamental areas of social life.
THEA 812 - Theory and practice of scene design. Application of the principles of design to stage settings. Development of the scene design for a play through sketches, color plates, models, and drawings.
SCLP 812 - Graduate-level work in various sculpture media and concepts.
TEAC 813A - Theoretical exploration of how second / additional languages are learned.
ALEC 813B - To discover and process, through applied assignments, the fundamental concepts and procedure necessary to effectively plan, manage and market a secondary program of skilled and technical science.
TEAC 813B - Preparation for teaching K-12 learners whose language of nurture is not English
TEAC 813M - Theory and pedagogy in the teaching of multilingual learners at all levels of K-12 education. Identify and design linguistically and culturally responsive instruction for multilingual learners in the content areas (e.g. language arts, science, mathematics, social sciences)
CDEV 814 - A firm grounding in the reality of the local economy is necessary for successful programs in community economic development and for designing successful state and local policy and programs in economic development.  The course introduces concepts of communities and regions, theories of economic growth, drivers of economic growth, the economic base of a community sources of growth or decline in the community, roles of local government and institutions, analytical tools, and strategies for local economic development. Course will be taught by Nebraska and will be offered fall semester.   To enroll, students must be enrolled in the Community Development Master's Degree program or obtain permission.
MATH 814 - Fundamental concepts of linear algebra, including properties of matrix arithmetic, systems of linearequations, vector spaces, inner products, determinants, eigenvalues and eigenvectors, and diagonalization.
HIST 814 - Historical context of changes in religion, literature, philosophy, and the arts, 400-1450.
MRST 814 - Historical context of changes in religion, literature, philosophy, and the arts, 400-1450.
THEA 814 - Advanced lighting design through the rendering of light story boards.
AECN 815 - Equilibrium Analysis: Applications in business, finance, and economics. Market equilibria, accumulations, and economics. Optimization: profit, cost, and utility functions. Constrained optimization problems with utility functions. Constrained optimization problems in production and consumer allocations; Kuhn and Tucker conditions; static and dynamic input-output Models.
ECON 815 - Equilibrium Analysis: Applications in business, finance, and economics. Market equilibria, accumulations, and economics. Optimization: profit, cost, and utility functions. Constrained optimization problems with utility functions. Constrained optimization problems in production and consumer allocations; Kuhn and Tucker conditions; static and dynamic input-output Models.
CYAF 815 - The concept of violence includes both interpersonal violence (child abuse, violence against women) and collective violence (war, genocide) and their intersections. The nature, causes, agents, and consequences of, as well as responses to violence are examined in the social, political, economic, cultural and global contexts.
GLST 815 - Mechanics of grant writing and fundraising for social impact organizations.
ACCT 815 - Development of skills in identifying problems, interpreting facts, conducting research, and communicating results in the field of Federal taxation.
ACCT 815T - Concepts of tax research and planning. Includes a survey of primary sources of federal tax law,background regarding tax practice and ethics, use of tax research tools, utilization of tax research toprepare and communicate technical tax concepts, and strategies for working with tax authorities. Emphasis is placed on the practical application of the tax laws in tax compliance, tax planning, and taxcontroversy scenarios.
CDEV 816 - A practical introduction to county and rural community government in Nebraska. Topics include state law and local governments; local government functions; land use regulation and zoning; drinking water and wastewater regulation; and local government taxes and spending.
MATH 817 - Topics from elementary group theory and ring theory, including fundamental isomorphism theorems, ideals, quotient rings, domains. Euclidean or principal ideal rings, unique factorization, modules and vector spaces including direct sum decompositions, bases, and dual spaces.
ENGL 817 - The in depth analysis of a particular topic in place studies and the environmental humanities.
CDEV 818 - A foundational knowledge of community engagement.  This will include understanding a community's readiness to change; strategies to engage community's members and strategies to determine goals and indicators to achieve change.  Participants will review and critique various community engagement and readiness processes, gaining an understanding of approaches advantages and limitations.  Through case studies, experiential learning and discussions, participants will develop a skillset for community engagement processes that lead to long term change.
ANTH 818 - Explores historical and contemporary aspects of the missions, ethical and political issues concerning exhibits and collections held by museums.
PHIL 818 - Intensive study of main problems in metaphysics, especially universals and particulars, the relation of mind and matter, the categories of the real, criteria of identity, and existential propositions. Readings from recent philosophers.
TMFD 818 - Influence of social, political, artistic and technological developments on quiltmaking traditions.
CDEV 819 - A foundational understanding of community action planning. Participants will review and critique various community action planning processes, gaining an understanding of process advantages and limitations.  Through case studies and discussions, participants will develop a skillset for community planning that clarifies what will be done and resources needed to accomplish the goals for long-term impacts.
THEA 819 - In-depth costume design in the areas of design conception and techniques of design communication. Application of principles learned in Costume Design I.
AGRO 820 - Introduction to applied computational methods to analyze biological data, efficiently manipulate large data sets, and automate workflows. Learn strategies for assembling and analyzing data generated by modern high throughput sequencing platforms.
CDEV 820 - Course will cover the most widely used strategies and programs for economic development within an action planning process. Retention and expansion of business and industry, retail development and downtown revitalization, incubating new firm creation, industrial attraction, and tourism development all will be covered. These are both strategies and programs that utilize all forms of capital from all sources, the private, public, and nonprofit sectors. Students will study the organized efforts to plan, build, and manage each program. Course will be taught by Iowa and will be offered fall semester. To enroll, students must be enrolled in the Community Development Master's Degree program or obtain permission.
MECH 820 - Heat transfer by conduction, convection, and radiation. Correlation of theory with experimental data and engineering design.
ENTO 820 - Principles of toxicology, insecticide classification, mode of action, metabolism and consequences of insecticide use.
BIOS 820 - Molecular basis of genetics. Gene structure and regulation, transposable elements, chromosome structure, DNA replication, and repair mechanisms and recombination.
CNST 820 - Examination of professional practice considering the perspectives of designers and the contractors and their respective relationships to society, specific client types, and other collaborators in the design and construction fields. Focus on ethics, professional communication and responsibility, professional organization, office management, environmental stewardship, professional registration, and owner-designer-contractor relationships.
ASCI 821 - Advanced course dealing with the nutrition of domestic animals. In-depth coverage of nutrients, nutrient metabolism, and nutrient requirements. Biochemical and physiological functions of nutrients in life processes.
GRPH 821 - Graduate-level work in various graphic design media and concepts.
ECEN 821 - Introduction to semiconductor fundamentals, charge carrier concentration and carrier transport, energy bands, and recombination. PN junctions, static and dynamic, and special PN junction diode devices.
ASCI 822 - Feeding practices for domestic animals. Applied animal nutrition and feed formulation.
ENTO 822 - Introduction to how insects and related arthropods have influenced human culture historically and in scientific discovery. Topics include the medical impact of insects on mankind, including widespread disease transmission, use in warfare, and therapeutic medicine. Explores how insects are represented by indigenous peoples and in Western popular culture through artifacts like visual art, literature, and music. Human perception regarding insects is also examined through the many benefits that arthropods provide, including use as food and feed and consumer product goods and services.
GRPH 822 - Graduate-level work in various graphic design media and concepts.
PHYS 822 - Introduction to structural, thermal, electrical, and magnetic properties of solids, based on concepts of atomic structure, chemical bonding in molecules, and electron states in solids. Principles underlying molecular design of materials and solid-state devices.
EMGT 822 - Covers principles and issues regarding production and technical operations for the engineering manager. Topics and techniques for the management of manufacturing and services in engineering and technology environments are emphasized including a focus on manufacturing and business processes, lean systems, factory physics, and constraints management. Case studies and spreadsheet modeling are used to relate concepts to real-world technical operations applications.
JOMC 822 - Multicultural and gender diversity issues within the mass media. Broadcast news, print, and advertising media messages of racial, ethnic, and gender based minorities including African Americans, Hispanic Americans, Asian Americans, Native Americans, and women.
TMFD 822 - Comprehensive study of issues involved in global sourcing, including the scope, trends, and sustainability of current practices. An analysis of cultural, political, ethical, and economic perspectives related to global sourcing, production, trade and distribution of textiles and apparel products.
CHME 823 - Application to multi-component  systems; thermodynamics, phase equilibria, chemical reaction equilibria, and process analysis.
CIVE 823 - Evaluation and analysis of physical and chemical unit operations and processes applied to the treatment of water, wastewater, and hazardous wastes.
METR 823 - Physical principles that provide the foundation for meteorology. Absorption, scattering, and transmission of radiation in the atmosphere, cloud physics, precipitation process, atmospheric optics, atmospheric electricity, and lightning.
GEOL 823 - Analysis and interpretation of the Quaternary period's paleoecological data. Patterns of long-term climate variation. Distribution patterns and responses of organisms and ecosystems to Quaternary environmental change.
THEA 823 - Principles and techniques of hand rendering for the entertainment arts.
MATH 824 - Derivation of the heat, wave, and potential equations; separation of variables method of solution; solutions of boundary value problems by use of Fourier series, Fourier transforms, eigenfunction expansions with emphasis on the Bessel and Legendre functions; interpretations of solutions in various physical settings.
MUSC 824 - The history, materials, and methodologies of piano pedagogy from a perspective of wellness promotion. Special issues pertaining to teaching beginning, intermediate, and advanced students. Observation experience and a supervised teaching practicum.
CHEM 824 - Selection and execution of analytical methods in the solution of typical academic and industrial chemical problems.
CIVE 824 - Planning, design and operation of solid and waste collection processing, treatment, and disposal systems including materials, resources and energy recovery systems.
ENGR 824 - The purposes and contexts of engineering education will be illuminated through readings and discussions of its historical roots, current expressions, and future directions. Discussions will delve into the history and trajectory of engineering education and concerns that are uniquely engineering (e.g., engineering design, diversity and inclusion, and teaming).
POLS 825 - The policy making role of the Congress including the institutionalization of the House and the Senate, an analysis of congressional behavior, the committee process, and the policy responsiveness of Congress.
AGRO 825 - Explore the management, environmental, economic, and social considerations of cover crops across a diversity of agricultural production systems and regions. Grow cover crops, measure benefits and tradeoffs, and apply knowledge to make management and policy recommendations.
MATH 825 - Real number system, topology of Euclidean space and metric spaces, continuous functions, derivatives and the mean value theorem, the Riemann and Riemann-Stieltjes integral, convergence, the uniformity concept, implicit functions, line and surface integrals.
ENTO 825 - Identification, biology, ecology and management of insect pests of agronomic crops such as corn, soybeans, sorghum, wheat, and alfalfa. Integrated Pest Management (IPM) strategies employed to maintain pests below damaging levels while minimizing the use of traditional insecticides.
CHME 825 - Application of classical engineering and chemical thermodynamics to problems in chemical engineering.
CHEM 825A - Survey of theory of ionic equilibrium systems of importance in chemical analysis.
CHEM 825B - Survey of principles and applications of electroanalytical chemistry.
CIVE 827 - Analysis of systems for wastewater treatment and disposal.
CSCE 828 - Introduction to the classical theory of computer science. Finite state automata and regular languages, minimization of automata. Context free languages and pushdown automata, Turing machines and other models of computation, undecidable problems, introduction to computational complexity.
ECEN 828 - Basic analysis and design of solid-state power electronic devices and converter circuitry.
ADPR 829 - Jacht is an innovative educational experience that puts into practice advertising, public relations, marketing, media, research and creative skills and knowledge in a startup ad agency environment. Students must think holistically about integrated marketing communications strategies and how a campaign contributes to the revenue of an agency as well as to the success of the client being served. Students must consider the broader business goals of both the startup agency and of real-world clients. Students are expected to adhere to strict deadlines and to deliver high quality work on time.
ADPR 830 - Seminar for graduate students who do not have the equivalent of an undergraduate degree in advertising. Business of advertising and promotion, and the processes and planning involved in strategic promotional communication. Current issues and strategies faced by advertising practitioners, the importance of branding, integrated marketing communications and promotion. Creation of a strategic marketing plan.
ACTS 830 - Introduction to forecasting in actuarial science. Simple and multiple regression, instrumental variables, time series methods, and applications of methods in forecasting actuarial variables. Interest rates, inflation rates, and claim frequencies.
NRES 830 - Climate-change issues serve as a context to develop research questions and design a discete, locally oriented research project through which they define a problem, analyze data, and develop conclusions to potentially impact decision-making in their community.  Designed for science educators.  <a href="/search/?P=NRES%20830" title="NRES&#160;830" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'NRES 830');">NRES&#160;830</a> is offered fall semesters.
MATH 830 - Phase diagrams, bifurcation theory, linear systems, the matrix exponential function, Floquet theory, stability theory, existence (Poincare-Bendixson Theorem) and non-existence of periodic solutions for non-linear ordinary differential equations, self-adjoint equations, and Sturm-Liouville theory.
PHIL 830 - Examination of classic books of 20th century jurisprudence. Topics include the relationship between law and morality and the development of legal positivism and its critics.
CRPL 830 - Theory and practice of spatial analysis and visualization with geographic information systems in planning. Selection and use of computer software and data for problem solving and decision making in community and regional planning and related fields. Various practical applications of geographic information systems, visualization, spatial analytics, geospatial mapping, modeling, and geo-database management. Hands-on training
ECEN 830 - Engineering principles of both the mechanical/aero dynamical and electrical components and systems, along with economic and environmental considerations for citing and public policy, to appropriately cover the relevant topics associated with all scales of wind energy implementations.
ACTS 831 - Introduction to statistical learning with actuarial applications using time series models and machine learning techniques. The topics covered include time series models, principal component analysis (PCA), decision tree, and clustering.
BIOC 831 - Structure and function of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids; nature of enzymes; major metabolic pathways of catabolism; and biochemical energy production.
BIOS 831 - Structure and function of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids; nature of enzymes; major metabolic pathways of catabolism; and biochemical energy production.
CHEM 831 - Structure and function of proteins, nucleic acids, carbohydrates and lipids; nature of enzymes; major metabolic pathways of catabolism; and biochemical energy production.
MECH 831 - Finite difference methods for steady and transient diffusion and convection-diffusion problems. Finite volume technique for the solution of multi-dimensional fluid flow, and heat and mass transfer problems.
POLS 831 - Intended for graduate students interested in a review of the field.
GEOG 831 - The history of cultural geography from von Humboldt through Carl Sauer to the 'new' cultural geographies of Don Mitchell, Gillian Rose and Noel Castree. The current theoretical debates of feminism, post-structuralism, post-colonialism and environmentalism, and the influences of literary and cultural studies in the development of cultural geography and the various methodologies involved.
ANTH 831 - Development of Historical Archaeology and current research in the field.
PHYS 831 - Thermal phenomena from the point of view of thermodynamics, kinetic theory, and statistical mechanics.
BIOC 832 - Major metabolic pathways of anabolism, structural and biochemical aspects of biological information flow and use in biotechnology.
BIOS 832 - Major metabolic pathways of anabolism, structural and biochemical aspects of biological information flow and use in biotechnology.
CHEM 832 - Major metabolic pathways of anabolism, structural and biochemical aspects of biological information flow and use in biotechnology.
BIOC 833 - Introduction to techniques used in biochemical and biotechnology research, including measurement of pH, spectroscopy, analysis of enzymes, chromatography, fractionation of macromolecules, electrophoresis, and centrifugation.
BIOS 833 - Introduction to techniques used in biochemical and biotechnology research, including measurement of pH, spectroscopy, analysis of enzymes, chromatography, fractionation of macromolecules, electrophoresis, and centrifugation.
CHEM 833 - Introduction to techniques used in biochemical and biotechnology research, including measurement of pH, spectroscopy, analysis of enzymes, chromatography, fractionation of macromolecules, electrophoresis, and centrifugation.
ENGR 833 - This learning experience is designed to provide graduate level training on teaching at the postsecondary level. Evidence-based teaching methods applicable to Science, Technology, Engineering ,and Mathematics (STEM) will be investigated and a learner-based pedagogy will be used to engage those in the course to experience STEM practices. The common element of problem solving is emphasized across all STEM disciplines allowing for discovery, exploration, and application of critical thinking skills. Primary tasks include developing a unit on Canvas that includes learning outcomes, lecture and activities, and assessments, a teaching philosophy, and engaging with technologies that support and enhance teaching and learning.
AGRO 833 - An introduction to current and emerging molecular biology technology and methods being used in crop breeding and their practical utilization in breeding programs.
ADPR 834 - A study of the digital communication landscape. Course explores how various channels of digital communication can be used to analyze audiences, connect with them and ultimately build brands.
ENGR 834 - Introduction to the basic types of research study designs (quantitative, qualitative, and mixed methods) through examples in STEM education. Learn to identify an educational problem in STEM education, pose a research question, and support the need for a study through literature review. Become familiar with how theories of learning and thinking are used to predict or explain research findings. Become familiar with the protection of human subjects and gain certification for human subjects research.
CHEM 835 - Fundamentals of chemical biology with an emphasis on the underlying principles of biomolecular structures, macromolecular-small molecule interactions, including mechanistic aspects of enzymes and cofactors, use of modified enzymes to alter biochemical pathways, and the use of chemical tools for understanding biological processes.
EDAD 835 - The role of P-12 district leadership in school finance, including tools for efficient and equitable management of operations; local, state, and federal finance and policy processes; and communication of financial information with multiple stakeholders.
CERM 835 - Design and build a kiln for firing pottery or sculpture.
CHME 835 - Advanced consideration of molecular and turbulent momentum, energy and mass transport.
ECEN 836 - Provides a solid background in electric machine analysis, covering fundamental concepts, techniques, and methods for analysis and design. Discussion of transformers and presentation of some new systems and applications.
CIVE 836 - Subsoil exploration and interpretation; selection of foundation systems; determination of allowable bearing capacity and settlement; design of deep foundations; pile driving analysis; control of groundwater.
MUSC 836 - Music as a field of scholarly inquiry, incorporating basic research tools and techniques.
ADPR 837 - Content and discussions on global issues affecting the public relations profession, the professional, the specialized practices, and the engagement of stakeholders simultaneously at home and at transnational levels.
ENTO 837 - Concepts of Integrated Pest Management (IPM) and methods used to control insect pests in sensitive environments such as schools, day cares, hospitals, nursing homes, zoos, and prisons.
THEA 837 - Advanced costume design techniques in specific types of performance arts.
CSCE 838 - Theoretical and practical insight into the Internet of Things (IoT). Basics of IoT, including devices and sensors, connectivity, cloud processing and storage, analytics and machine learning, security, business models as well as advanced topics such as localization, synchronization, connected vehicles, and applications of IoT. Includes a group project that provides hands-on interaction with IoT.
TEAC 838 - Discusses the relationships among language and learning, educator and learner discourses, and knowledge and action in connection to sociolinguistics, educational practice, and professional development. Introduction to English language morphology, syntax, phonology, semantics, and pragmatics as well as the language of schooling, its linguistic as well as socio-cultural and cognitive features. Addresses issues of diversity and social justice in education.
MECH 839 - Biomaterials, biocompatibility, and biomaterial surface characteristics (chemistry, surface energy, topography, wettability, etc.). Protein adsorption on biomaterials. Microscale and nanoscale chemical patterning; anisotropic and isotropic micro/nanotopography; cell sensing and response to patterned substrates.
EDAD 840 - Introduction to human development theories; psychosocial, cognitive, and structural theories, with a focus on learning to use theory to improve skills in working with students.
ACCT 840 - Fraud and how fraud differs from other crimes. Fraud techniques, schemes, and actual fraud cases.
ACTS 840 - Fundamental concepts of financial mathematics, and how those concepts are applied in calculating present and accumulated values for various streams of cash flows. Practical applications of these concepts in loans, bonds, capital budgeting, and portfolio management.
BIOS 840 - Molecular approaches to the study of prokaryotic cell structure and physiology, including growth, cell division, metabolism, and alternative microbial life styles.
VBMS 840 - Molecular approaches to the study of prokaryotic cell structure and physiology, including growth, cell division, metabolism, and alternative microbial life styles.
CSCE 840 - Principles of numerical computing and error analysis covering numerical error, root finding, systems of equations, interpolation, numerical differentiation and integration, and differential equations. Modeling real-world engineering problems on digital computers. Effects of floating point arithmetic.
MATH 840 - Principles of numerical computing and error analysis covering numerical error, root finding, systems of equations, interpolation, numerical differentiation and integration, and differential equations. Modeling real-world engineering problems on digital computers. Effects of floating point arithmetic.
CRPL 840 - Analytical methods and techniques for research, problem solving, and decision making are studied and applied within the context of the planning process. Statistical analyses; forecasting methods; optimization techniques; models and simulation techniques; and methods of demographic, economic, land use, and policy analyses are studied in relation to community and regional planning.
CBIO 841 - Overview of major research questions in the life sciences focused on understanding complex biological systems. Emphasis on developing confidence in reading and critically evaluating seminal and current primary literature in a broad range of research on living systems. Introduction to key techniques relevant to life sciences research.
POLS 841 - Supreme Court doctrine determining the distribution of powers within the national government and between the national government and the state governments.
PHYS 841 - Methods and techniques of modern experimental physics.
CHEM 841 - <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20441" title="CHEM&#160;441" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 441');">CHEM&#160;441</a>/841 and the accompanying lab course, <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20443" title="CHEM&#160;443" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 443');">CHEM&#160;443</a>/843, constitute a basic course in inorganic chemistry. Structure, bonding, properties, and reactions of inorganic compounds with emphasis on the relationships and trends that are embodied in the periodic table of the elements.
PRNT 841 - Graduate-level work in various printmaking media and concepts.
METR 842 - Analysis and forecasting of subsynoptic-scale weather systems. Convection, thunderstorm models, severe local storm forecasting techniques, mesoscale convective complexes, vertical cross-sections, isentropic analysis, and weather radar.
CHME 842 - Basic principles of chemical kinetics are coupled with models descriptive of rates of energy and mass transfer for the analysis and design of reactor systems.
ANTH 842 - Biological variation of modern humas worldwide through time and space. Standard measurements of phenotypic, e.g. elementary anthropometry. Biological adaptation to environment using recent theoretical perspectives.
PRNT 842 - Graduate-level work in various printmaking media and concepts.
CIVE 843 - Matrix analysis methods and computer solutions for indeterminate structures.  Additional topics: static condensation, shear deformations, and non-prismatic members in matrix-based analyses, moment distribution method, load cases and load combinations for buildings and bridges, and influence lines and analysis for moving loads.
CBIO 843 - Seminar course on information and knowledge of recent and important research discoveries in topics that combine the quantitative and life sciences. Participants will gain knowledge and experience relevant to scientific presentation, dissemination, and communication. Topics include those from the specializations in the PhD program in Complex Biosystems.
CSCE 843 - Covers the cybersecurity threat landscape and the mitigation strategies for Big Data, Cloud environments and Cryptocurrencies. Discusses emerging technologies and frameworks such as End-to-end encryption, Blockchains, Smart Contracts, OpenID Connect and OAuth2.0 as promising solutions to ensure data confidentiality and privacy.
CRIM 843 - Designed to provide a systematic introduction to the study of human trafficking with a focus on the prevalence, predictors, and consequences of human trafficking. Includes a critical understanding and appreciation of the development and current state of theories, measurement, and quantitative and qualitative results that can be used to inform our understanding of the nature of these events, the victims who are harmed, the individuals who facilitate these crimes, and identification and response initiatives.
CHEM 843 - Introduction to typical inorganic chemistry laboratory techniques through the preparation and characterization of inorganic compounds.
THEA 843 - Professional level preparation for Environmental Designers in the Entertainment Arts.
MUEN 843 - Rehearsal and performance of tenor and bass choral literature chosen from folk songs, spirituals, Broadway and Cornhusker favorites.
CNST 844 - Introduction to safety management for project engineers, project managers, safety teams, and company safety officers. Addresses basic accident and injury models, human accident costs, safety behavior, ethical issues in safety, workers' compensation and EMR, job safety analysis (JSA), project site safety audits, safety promotion and training, emergency planning and response, safety management programs and training, and OSHA record-keeping and reporting.
ANTH 844 - Study of human osteology including histology, pathology, biomechanics and taphonomy.
ECEN 844 - Classical (transfer function) and modern (state variable) control techniques. Both time domain and frequency domain techniques are studied. Traditional proportional, lead, lag, and PID compensators are examined, as well as state variable feedback.
SOCI 844 - Historical and cross-cultural approach to population issues by linking changes in fertility and mortality to social institutions. Focuses on the link between population processes and such issues as gender roles, the role of the family, the Third World, and poverty and inequality.
MUEN 844L - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 844M - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 844P - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 844U - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 844W - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 844Y - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
MUEN 844Z - Small groups of primarily like instruments organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals of music appropriate for the ensemble.
EDAD 845 - The various aspects of human resources (HR) management and how they contribute to mission accomplishment and organizational success in American higher education (HIED).  Students will examine traditional HR responsibilities (e.g., recruitment and selection, supervision and utilization, evaluation, professional development, pay and benefits, etc.) and how these activities operate within a college/university setting.  Strategic HR planning concepts will be emphasized for optimizing human capital and strengthening institutional capabilities in the ever-changing HIED environment.
MUEN 845 - Repertoire from the choral literature of the Renaissance through contemporary periods.
ENGL 845K - Topics in African poetry, fiction, and/or non-fiction prose.
CYAF 846 - Introduction to addictions from a family systems perspective: theories; behavioral patterns; physiological, psychological and social impacts on individuals and the family; and implications for interventions and treatment.
GERO 846 - Major social and psychological changes that occur as a function of aging. Both normal and abnormal patterns of developmental change including their implications for behavior.
MUEN 846 - Rehearsal and Performance of soprano and alto choral literature.
SPED 846 - An introduction to current educational programs and services for children with visual impairments, including children with additional disabilities. Topics include the history of educational services for this population, developmental characteristics, psychosocial aspects, and current and past legislation.
GERM 847 - Representative authors of the Enlightenment, Empfindsamkeit, and Storm and Stress.
SPED 847 - Structure and function of the visual system, conditions that affect visual ability, and the functional and environmental implications of low vision. Strategies for enhancing visual ability in children with visual impairments and children who have additional disabilities. Conducting Functional Vision Assessments.
MUEN 847 - Rehearsal and performance of major orchestral works of the eighteenth through the twenty-first centuries.
MUED 848 - Explores characteristics, practices, and habits associated with expert teaching in a variety of music classroom settings. Develop and refine habits of personal musicianship and translate these habits into effective modeling. Through reflective practice, focus on creating positive relationships with students, enhancing student engagement, developing proactive and effective instructional strategies, sequencing instruction effectively, and creating culturally responsive learning environments.
SPED 848 - Provide an overview of the profession of orientation and mobility including key figures, organizations, and the overall development of the field as well as kinesiology and sensorimotor functioning, psychosocial aspects of O&amp;M, environmental accessibility, and research.
MUSC 848 - Review of music theory. Fundamentals, diatonic and/or chromatic harmony, form, and analysis.
MUSC 848A - Introduction to part writing and voice leading.
MUEN 848A - Rehearsal and performance of literature appropriate for various kinds of bands.
MUSC 848B - Chromatic theory.
MUEN 848B - Rehearsal and performance of literature appropriate for various kinds of bands.
MUSC 848E - Sonata and fugue.
MUEN 849 - Select vocal ensemble specializing in the rehearsal and performance of vocal chamber music ranging from early music to contemporary literature.
ACCT 850 - Fundamentals of data exploration, analysis, and communication in an accounting setting. Emphasis on written communication and data visualization.
EDPS 850 - Advanced study of the behavior and development of preschool and elementary school children.
ADPR 850 - Philosophies and theories that underlie the discipline and profession of public relations. The critical and supportive perspectives used to gain insight into the history and direction of public relations.
CIVE 850 - Analysis and design of prestressed concrete members. Axial force, bending, shear, torsion, prestress losses, initial and long-term deflection, partial prestressing, statically indeterminate structures.
EDAD 851 - Faculty and support staff in P-12 schools: appraisal, professional learning communities, high standards/high performance and accountability.
CSCE 851 - Organization and structure of operating systems. Control, communication, and synchronization of concurrent processes. Processor and job scheduling. Memory organization and management including paging, segmentation, and virtual memory. Resource management. Deadlock avoidance, detection, recovery. File system concepts and structure. Protection and security. Substantial programming.
PANT 851 - Graduate-level work in various painting media and concepts.
EDPS 851 - Mental, social, and emotional development of boys and girls during the adolescent period.
CYAF 852 - Practical issues in the area of teaching and learning as applied to Family and Consumer Sciences.  Develop teaching and/or learning plans for teaching Family and Consumer Sciences.  Analyze classroom management  practices and develop plans for assessment.
MUEN 852 - Quartets, trios, duos, and miscellaneous chamber groups organized for supervised and scheduled rehearsals and performances of music appropriate for the ensemble.
PHYS 852 - Production of electromagnetic waves, wave guides and cavities, properties of waves, plane waves, reflection and refraction, interference and coherence phenomena, polarization. Optical properties of matter.
PANT 852 - Graduate-level work in various painting media and concepts.
EDAD 852 - School culture and student behavior in P-12 schools. Personalized teaching and learning environments that address student diversity, needs and interests.
CIVE 852 - Theory and application of systems engineering with emphasis on optimization and simulation techniques for evaluating alternatives in water resources developments related to water supply, flood control, hydroelectric power, drainage, water quality, water distribution, irrigation, and water measurement.
TEAC 852N - Focus on practical issues in the area of teaching and learning as applied to the individual disciplines.
TEAC 852P - Focus on practical issues in the area of teaching and learning as applied to the individual disciplines.
TEAC 852R - Focus on practical issues in the area of teaching and learning as applied to the individual disciplines.
TEAC 852V - Focus on practical issues in the area of teaching and learning as applied to the individual disciplines.
TEAC 852W - Focus on practical issues in the area of teaching and learning as applied to the individual disciplines.
FREN 853 - Readings in the major cultural, historical and literary developments from 1789 to 1914
EDAD 853 - An examination of the evolving roles of the modern principal and U.S. society.
GEOL 853 - Basic concepts of GIS, hands-on experience with various case studies from geology, meteorology, climatology and environmental applications.
METR 853 - Basic concepts of GIS, hands-on experience with various case studies from geology, meteorology, climatology and environmental applications.
MECH 853 - Robotics synthesize some aspects of human function by the use of mechanisms, sensors, actuators, and computers.
MUEN 853A - Jazz instrumental large ensemble.
MUEN 853B - Jazz instrumental large ensemble of standard instrumentation.
BIOS 854 - Nature and characteristics of populations and communities. Interactions within and between populations in community structure and dynamics. Direct and indirect interactions and ecological processes, competition, predation, parasitism, herbivory, and pollination. Structure, functioning and persistence of natural communities, foodweb dynamics, succession, and biodiversity.
NRES 854 - Nature and characteristics of populations and communities. Interactions within and between populations in community structure and dynamics. Direct and indirect interactions and ecological processes, competition, predation, parasitism, herbivory, and pollination. Structure, functioning and persistence of natural communities, foodweb dynamics, succession, and biodiversity.
EDPS 854 - Cognitive psychology and its applications in instruction. Memory, problem solving, cognitive process in reading, research approaches, and applications to teaching.
CHEM 855 - Survey of modern concepts of structure/bonding, acidity/basicity, stereochemistry, and reaction mechanisms. Introduction to the fundamental tools used to investigate reaction mechanism (transition state theory, elementary Huckel theory, linear free energy relationships, rate laws and kinetic isotope effects). Mechanistic examples emphasize the major classes of organic reactions, particularly concerted, carbanionic and carbocationic. Development of reasoning skills.
GEOL 855 - A practical introduction to modeling and computational techniques that bridges subdisciplines of geology, with a focus on fluid transport modeling.
HIST 855 - Surveys the major developments in domestic politics, in foreign affairs, and the economic, social, and cultural spheres from the end of World War II to the present.
MUSC 856 - Study of prolongation and structural counterpoint in tonal music and the hierarchical perspectives that result.
TEAC 856L - Introduction to current theoretical models of learning pertaining to schooling. Learner characteristics and applications to traditional classroom settings.  Theories and applications specific to instructional technology.
NUTR 857 - Supervised classroom or outreach experiences in educational or community settings.
ACCT 857 - Rudiments of conceptual framework for designing and evaluating management accounting and control systems for business firms and situations. Case studies on the management aspects of budgeting, standard setting, variance analysis, cost allocation, operating control, transfer pricing, capital budgeting, performance evaluation, and other pertinent topics relating to managerial uses of accounting data.
MUOP 857 - Preparation for and performance of a chorus, minor, or major role in a fully staged Nebraska (Lincoln) Opera Theatre production.
CSCE 858 - Overview of nanoscale communication options. Focus on bio-inspired communication through molecule exchange and biochemical reactions. Different techniques to realize nanomachines will be surveyed in the course, with particular attention to the tools provided by synthetic biology for the programming of biological cooperative systems.
SPED 859 - Overall philosophy of orientation and mobility (O&amp;M), including Code of Ethics and Certification standards; discuss current literature and issues impacting programming and students with multiple disabilities; development and administration of an effective O&amp;M instructional program; and O&amp;M assessment procedures.
NUTR 859 - Nutritional needs throughout the life span including pregnancy, lactation, growth and aging. Approaches to nutrition education for different ages.
POLS 860 - Extensive reading required. Rigorous survey of the literature in international relations, including international law and international organization. Intended to introduce the beginning graduate student to the field of international relations.
NUTR 860 - Foundation course for developing expertise in public health theory as it applies to physical activity and nutrition and related core practices as an essential means to addressing today's public health issues. Consideration of approaches for complex social problems. Exposure to behavioral theories and models as well as examples of their use in research and application. Understanding and positively influencing health behaviors with a focus on improving nutrition and physical activity, while gaining an appreciation for the gap and limitations that exist between theory and practice.
PSYC 860 - Issues in human memory within the context of cognitive psychology: attention; short and long term memory; retrieval processes; semantic memory; how long-term memory is involved in comprehension and knowledge; how emotion affects memory; and the major research paradigms used in the study of memory.
SPED 860 - Introduction to the history, philosophy, and research related to early intervention practices with children 0-5 years of age. Discussion of issues related to legal mandates, model programs, family involvement, integration, transitions, service delivery systems, teamwork and assessment for young children.
ECEN 860 - Labview as a programming language and for applications to acquire and analyze data, to access the network, control lab instruments, and for video and sound applications.
FREN 860 - Survey of writing and film from French-speaking cultures of Africa, the Caribbean, Oceania, Canada, and the Indian Ocean.
CHME 860 - Selected laboratory experiments to demonstrate the theory of the dynamics and control of chemical processes.
TEAC 861 - Educational practices and policies for people from historically oppressed groups in the United States Foundation of multicultural education. Discussion of contemporary educational issues within the context of multicultural and cultural diversity. Critique of curricular materials and resources promoting a multicultural perspective.
PHOT 861 - Graduate-level work in various photographic media and concepts.
ARCH 861 - Issues of contemporary urbanism and the processes of urban design. Experiential nature of cities, role of public policy, ideology, genesis and development of urban form and space.
BIOS 862 - Introduction to animal behavior stressing the ethological approach. Anatomical and physiological bases of behavior, ontogenetic and phylogenetic observations, and the relations of animal behavior studies to genetics, ecology, taxonomy, and evolution.
PHYS 862 - Basic concepts and experimental foundation for an understanding of the physics of atoms, nuclei, and elementary particles.
SOCI 862 - The logic and techniques of sociological data analysis: use statistical software to run linear regression analyses and assess violations of regression assumption; the development of theoretically driven models; and the interpretation of results from linear regression analyses.
AGRO 862 - History, breeding and production of cannabis for medicinal marijuana and hemp for fiber use when grown using a growth room, greenhouse, high tunnel and/or field. Clarification between scientific evidence and casual information.
HORT 862 - History, breeding and production of cannabis for medicinal marijuana and hemp for fiber use when grown using a growth room, greenhouse, high tunnel and/or field. Clarification between scientific evidence and casual information.
ECEN 862 - Mathematical descriptions of signals in communication systems. Principles of analog modulation and demodulation. Performance analysis of analog communication systems in the presence of noise.
PHOT 862 - Graduate-level work in various photographic media and concepts.
SPED 862 - Selection, design and implementation of developmentally appropriate, classroom-based interventions for young children with disabilities. Ecological assessments; activity and instructional planning; selection and use evidence-based strategies; consultation practices for inclusive settings.
CHME 862 - Analysis and design of automatic control systems. Dynamic responses of measuring instruments, control elements, stability of control systems, and process equipment included in control loops.
MATL 862 - Principles of crystallography. Production and properties of X-rays. Interaction of X-rays with atoms and the nature of diffraction (direction and the intensities of diffracted beams). Diffraction patterns and intensity measurements.
MUSC 862I - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862J - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862K - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862L - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862M - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862N - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862P - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862Q - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862R - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862T - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862U - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862V - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862W - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862Y - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
MUSC 862Z - Survey of the pedagogy and the solo, chamber and pedagogical literature of instruments from elementary to advanced levels, for class as well as private instruction.
ECEN 863 - Discrete system analysis using Z-transforms. Analysis and design of digital filters. Discrete Fourier transforms.
EDPS 863 - Research methods and findings, concepts, and principles of operant conditioning as related to the experimental analysis of human behavioral events and to the development of behavior engineering technologies.
CRPL 863 - Explores the connection between transportation planning, land use, and urban form. Review the history and policies that have shaped current transportation systems, and the planning tools available to influence this process. Address planning for multiple modes of transportation (car, bus, bike, walk) and the implications of transportation planning for health, equity, and sustainability.
CIVE 863 - Design of signalized intersections, arterial street and network signal systems, and freeway control systems.
POLS 863 - Military action as an instrument of American foreign policy. Constitutional basis of the president's and Congress's war powers; assessments of the role of the White House, Congress, CIA, senior pentagon officials, the American public, and military alliances - NATO and coalitions of the willing - in supporting and directing the use of military action abroad; and the political and strategic consequences of various American applications of military force.
SOCI 864 - The conceptual structures of selected theorists and of the basis of theory construction and testing.
ADPR 864 - Issues in sports media relations and integrated marketing communications. Background of the unpredictable nature of the sports industry and the relationships with its various publics and the media.
SPMC 864 - Issues in sports media relations and integrated marketing communications. Background of the unpredictable nature of the sports industry and the relationships with its various publics and the media.
SPAN 865 - Explore some of the great leitmotifs that have shaped the cultural production of the Spanish speaking Caribbean and the Caribbean diasporas in the U.S. Topics include colonial and postcolonial exploitation, race and transculturation, displacement and migration, environmental issues and natural disasters, among others.
ASCI 865 - Historical perspective to the discipline of animal breeding and genetics. Introduction to the contributions of geneticists who have significantly impacted the discipline. Material includes pre-recorded interviews of scientists that have had an international impact in animal breeding and genetics. Critique key papers.
MUSC 865 - Theoretical foundation of jazz composition and performance. Ear training and keyboard skills.
SPED 865 - Methods and materials for conducting essential assessments for children with visual impairments of all ages and abilities. Includes functional vision assessment (FVA), learning media assessment (LMA), and expanded core curriculum (ECC) screening and assessment.
CSCE 865 - Discussion of theoretical and practical insight to wireless communications and wireless networking, current practices, and future trends. Wireless network architectures, mobility management, radio propagation, modulation, power control, antennas, channel access, pricing, and standards.
EDPS 866 - Counseling skills required for basic, entry-level clinical work. Practicing skills, receiving peer/instructor performance feedback, and role-playing clinical situations.
TMFD 866 - Advanced study of issues and management strategies necessary to design and produce a competitively priced product. Examination of the role of globalization and rapidly changing technology on the development of a successful product.
MNGT 866 - Government regulation of employment and labor relations. Includes laws and agencies relating to employment practices, pay, hours, equal employment opportunity, labor relations, safety, health, pensions, and benefits. Social and economic implications of governmental regulation considered.
EDPS 867 - Foundations, models, and practices of contemporary school psychology and an exploration of transitions and future developments in the profession. Investigations of the major legal and ethical systems affecting school psychologists and the application of standards for professional practice.
GERO 867 - Historical overview of programs for the elderly, to examine the national policy process as it relates to the older American, and to review the principles and practices relative to the existing national programs for the aged.
CSCE 867 - In-depth coverage of problems related to software quality, and approaches for addressing them.  Topics include testing techniques, dynamic and static program analysis techniques, and other approaches for verifying software qualities. Tool support for performing testing, verification, and analysis will also be studied.
EDPS 868 - Ethnic subcultures in the US, cross-cultural communication systems, and change strategies. Cultural cues and barriers in counseling, personal assumptions and values, and active experiencing of cultural diversity in the counseling relationship.
ECEN 869 - Analysis and design of analog integrated circuits both bipolar and MOS. Basic circuit elements such as differential pairs, current sources, active loads, output drivers used in the design of more complex analog integrated circuits.
MATL 869 - Development of the principles controlling the formation of the structure of engineering materials. Phase diagrams, diffusion, interfaces and microstructures, solidification and diffusional transformation and diffusionless transformations.
CSCE 869 - Introduction to concepts, principles and state-of-the-art methods in creating and maintaining secure software systems.
CRPL 870 - Introduces environmental planning, including its history and origins. Major environmental issues throughout the world, and the roles of planning in addressing these problems. Environmental planning process and environmental legislation.
POLS 870 - Development of international norms on human rights and attempts to implement those standards. Emphasis on political process, with attention to law, philosophy, economics, and culture. Coverage of the United Nations, regional organizations, private agencies, and national foreign policies.
MODL 870 - Lecture and discussion about important figures and movements in the history of literary theory. Reading of representative texts to develop a critical lexicon. Bibliographic and methodological component, tailored to needs of modern language students, and required of all graduate students.
ACTS 871 - Further applications of actuarial probabilistic methods to determine net premiums, gross premiums, and reserves in the areas of life and health insurance, and annuities. Other topics include insurance and annuities involving multiple lives, multiple decrements, multi-state models, and pensions.
MUSC 871 - Development of the art song, emphasizing the European and New World traditions from the eighteenth century to the present.
CSCE 871 - Introduction to computational methods for tackling challenges in biological data analysis and modeling and understanding complex systems at the molecular and cellular level. The main topics include bio-sequence analysis, motif finding, structure prediction, phylogenic inference, regulation network modeling, and high-throughput omics data analysis.
ENGL 871 - History, analysis and application of a variety of trends in literary and/or film theory.
MATH 871 - Topological spaces, continuous functions, product and quotient spaces, compactness and connectedness, homotopy, fundamental groups.
MECH 872 - Hands-on exposure to several aspects of Additive Manufacturing (AM): (1) design and experimentation; (2) process optimization; and (3) materials testing. Coverage of a variety of AM technologies, their advantages and limitations, and how to design for AM. Discussion of both polymer and metal technologies, and exploration of recent applications of AM across multiple industries.
ACTS 872 - Further applications of actuarial probabilistic methods to determine in the areas of interpreting and performing calculations involving profit testing on both traditional life insurance and more modern life insurance such as universal life and equity-linked insurance, as well as pricing and reserving embedded options.
SPED 872 - Education of students who are deaf or hard of hearing, including history, definitions, etiology, identification, assessment, professional roles, and educational programming. Examine attitudes, assumptions, and stereotypes of persons who are deaf or hard of hearing.
CRPL 872 - Overview of theory, principles, methodology, and procedures of planning for hazards, disasters, and emergencies in communities and regions, with the goal of reducing vulnerabilities and increasing resiliency in the disaster management cycle: mitigation, preparation, response, and recovery.
FDST 872 - The Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point (HACCP) System and its application in the food industry.
CHME 873 - Engineering processes for production of biologics and metabolic products, with emphasis on biopharmaceutical production by bacteria, yeast, and mammalian systems.
CSCE 873 - High-level processing for image understanding and high-level vision. Data structures, algorithms, and modeling. Low-level representation, basic pattern-recognition and image-analysis techniques, segmentation, color, texture and motion analysis, and representation of 2-D and 3-D shape. Applications for content-based image retrieval, digital libraries, and interpretation of satellite imagery.
MATL 873 - Fundamentals of corrosion engineering, underlying principles, corrosion control, and materials selection and environmental control.
ACTS 873 - The theory and applications of short-term actuarial models are explored. Topics include Interpreting and performing calculations involving: (i) some commonly used claim frequency and claim severity distributions as they are applied in so-called aggregate risk models; (ii) coverage modifications; (iii) actuarial ratemaking; and (iv) various loss-reserving techniques for property/casualty insurance policies.
CYAF 874 - Selection, use, and interpretation of assessment instruments for understanding the developmental level of children from birth through age eight. Assessment of reasoning and thinking processes, concept formation, and social cognition.
SPED 874 - Assessment instruments, curricula and instructional methods for developing language and literacy for children who are deaf or hard of hearing, birth through 21. Methods for coordinating speech, language and/or auditory training in the home and classroom with that in the speech and/or language therapy program, and connecting this to literacy development and strategies.
ACTS 875 - Principles and practices of pricing and/or funding and valuation for life, health, property and liability insurance, and annuities and pension plans. Commercially available actuarial modeling software.
ECEN 875 - The fundamental concepts of satellite communications. Orbits, launching satellites, modulation and multiplexing, multiple access, earth stations, coding, interference and special problems in satellite communications.
SPAN 876 - Analysis of exile and migration in Spain and/or Latin America, covering topics such as memory, political and national ideology, work, gender and sexuality, and the second generation.
HRTM 876 - Approved professional experience as an entry-level manager in the hospitality industry.
CSCE 876 - Introduction to basic principles, techniques, and tools now being used in the area of machine intelligence. Languages for AI programming introduced with emphasis on LISP. Lecture topics include problem solving, search, game playing, knowledge representation, expert systems, and applications.
MUSC 876 - Literature for solo piano from the early Baroque through the Twentieth Century, with emphasis on musical styles.
CONE 876 - The basic systems related to revenues and expenses associated with record keeping of construction contracts. Managerial accounting related to planning and control of construction projects.
CSCE 877 - Introductory course on cryptography and computer security. Topics: classical cryptography (substitution, Vigenere, Hill and permutation ciphers, and the one-time pad); Block ciphers and stream ciphers; The Data Encryption Standard; Public-key cryptography, including RSA and El-Gamal systems; Signature schemes, including the Digital Signature Standard; Key exchange, key management and identification protocols.
ALEC 877 - Classic and contemporary motivation theories applied to leadership in organizations and communities.
ECEN 878 - Designed to provide a solid grasp of the methods of machine learning (ML) and how to build powerful ML models for discovering statistical regularities from both structured and unstructured data. Offers an introduction to Deep Learning for Computer Vision and Natural Language Processing.
SPMC 878 - Products are branded and delivered through the always emerging formats of social and digital media. Apply writing, critical thinking, and persuasion skills to the practice of social and digital media production for the purpose of promotion. Explore various digital promotion technologies, as well as the use of emerging social media to study the application of sports promotion. Develop and produce a social and digital project.
CSCE 879 - Fundamentals and current trends in deep learning. Backpropagation, activation functions, loss functions, choosing an optimizer, and regularization. Common architectures such as convolutional, autoencoders, and recurrent. Applications such as image analysis, text analysis, sequence analysis, and reinforcement learning.
MECH 880 - Numerical algorithms and their convergence properties in: solving nonlinear equations; direct and iterative schemes for linear systems of equations; eigenvalue problems; polynomial and spline interpolation; curve fitting; numerical integration and differentiation; initial and boundary values problems for Ordinary Differential Equations (ODEs) and systems of ODEs with applications to engineering; finite difference methods for partial differential equations (potential problems, heat-equation, wave-equation).
CNST 880 - Motivation and productivity improvement methods for management in typical job environments. Methods to improve working environments in the field and office. Procedures and mechanisms to implement human behavior and ergonomics concepts for enhanced productivity and safety.
ENGL 880 - Introduction to writing center theory and consulting practice. Students engage in research that contributes to scholarly conversations in writing center studies. Successful completion of <a href="/search/?P=ENGL%20880" title="ENGL&#160;880" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'ENGL 880');">ENGL&#160;880</a> is strongly recommended for students seeking to work in the UNL Writing Center.
ADPR 881 - Research in the planning, development and evaluation of advertising. The research process, use of secondary sources of information and how to analyze data from these sources. The planning and execution of primary research. Survey techniques.
CHEM 881 - <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20481" title="CHEM&#160;481" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 481');">CHEM&#160;481</a>/881 and 482/882 with accompanying lab 484/884 form a continuous basic course in physical chemistry for students interested in chemistry as a profession. Introduction to quantum mechanics and statistical mechanics; application to problems in atomic and molecular structure and to spectroscopy.
MUSC 881 - Explores the strategies and understanding of scholarly bibliographic and research procedures and standards in music disciplines.
ECEN 882 - Fundamental theory of antennas and radio propagation for wireless communications. Basic antenna characteristics and various antennas and antenna arrays. Basic propagation mechanisms and various channel models, such as Friis free space model, Hata model, lognormal distribution, and multipath model. Includes practical antenna design for high radio frequency (RF) with modeling software tools such as Numerical Electromagnetic Code (NEC) and Advanced Design System (ADS). Design projects will be assigned as the main part of course.
CYAF 882 - Acquire the knowledge, competencies, and experiences that will allow greater participation as a global citizen by examining the historical, cultural, ethnic, economic, systemic and socio-cultural complexities of families.
CHME 882 - Introduction to polymer synthesis, structure, polymer physics, thermodynamics, kinetics, polymer characterization techniques, polymer properties and applications.
SPED 882 - Selection, design, and implementation of best practice instruction for students with severe disabilities, multiple disabilities, or deaf-blindness.
SOCI 882 - Sociological perspectives on leadership and its multiple dimensions related to individuals, group dynamics, social structures, and contextual factors.
ADPR 883 - How to improve individual portfolios of creative work and execute a variety of creative pieces that demonstrate improvement in their collections.
ANTH 884 - Collection, management, visualization, and analysis of quantitative anthropological data. Exploratory and confirmatory data analysis. Data analytics.
ECEN 884 - Network security and cryptographic protocols.  Classical encryption techniques, block ciphers and stream cyphers, public-key cryptography, authentications digital signatures, key management and distributions, network vulnerabilities, transport-level security, IP security.
WMNS 885 - Introduction to feminist and gender theory. Important theoretical frameworks upon which Women's Studies is based and the implications of these theories in practice.
MUSC 885 - Forms, styles, composers, and aesthetics of the classic period.
ANTH 886 - Exploration and deep evaluation of concept of heritage, digital heritage applications, and hands-on experience in creating digital heritage products using desktop and mobile devices.
CHME 886 - Thermodynamic and kinetic principles of electrochemistry are applied to the design and analysis of electrochemical processes, including chemical production, batteries, fuel cells, and corrosion prevention.
NUTR 886 - In-depth analysis and development of the techniques and knowledge prerequisite for certification in adult fitness and cardiac rehabilitation as prescribed by the American College of Sports Medicine.
MUCP 886 - Development of basic professional competency in the areas of scoring and music preparation for small jazz ensembles of varying instrumentations.
JOMC 886 - Legal basis for freedom of speech and press.  Limitations imposed upon rights by statue, common law and court decisions.  Resolving conflicts between those rights and other constitutional rights.  Enhancing critical-thinking and writing skills. Roles, rights, and responsibilities of mass media in a free society through analysis of cases.
PHIL 886 - Independent and significant research project.
JOMC 887 - Interrelationships between the American mass media and society, integrating ethics, theories and contemporary issues.
ANTH 887B - Survey of vocabulary, techniques, and ideas needed to research major materials found in archaeological sites.
CYAF 888 - Analysis of child and family policies, including what is family policy, how policy is made and implemented, how values and goals affect policy and future directions for child and family policies in America and in other countries.
HORT 888 - The process of starting your own enterprise. Competitive environment, risk management, finance for business startups, funding, and business plan writing.
ENTO 888 - Application of graduate course work for the non-thesis MS degree program.
PSYC 889 - Current issues in theory and research in developmental psychology examined (e.g., emotional development, the changing American family, the preschool years, social understanding), along with methods of research in these and other areas.
ARCH 889 - Comprehensive overview of the complementary and contributory relationship between research and design, with a particular emphasis on design research as a projective activity.
IDES 889 - Comprehensive overview of the complementary and contributory relationship between research and design, with a particular emphasis on design research as a projective activity.
TEAC 889 - Working with a faculty mentor on either an individual or small-group basis, the student plans, conducts, and reports a summative work project.
MATH 889 - Markov chains, continuous-time Markov processes, the Poisson process, Brownian motion, introduction to stochastic calculus.
GRBA 890 - Independent study of theories, principles, practices, techniques, and strategies utilized in the business field. Practical experience in managerial, administrative situations.
ENGL 890 - Practical mastery of print, electronic, and other resources related to advanced study in English; understanding of scholarship as conversation, research as inquiry, authority as constructed and contextual, information creation as a process, searching as strategic exploration, and the various kinds of value that information has.
ENVE 890 - Problems in engineering or management in a non-academic experience within the private sector or a government agency. Research, design, analysis, and testing.
POLS 891 - Individual readings in Political Science
CSCE 891 - Experiential learning in conjunction with an approved industrial or governmental agency under the joint supervision of an outside sponsor and a faculty member. A detailed project proposal must be prepared by the student and approved by the department prior to the start of the project. A final report must be submitted.
ECEN 891 - Special topics in the emerging areas of electrical, computer, and electronics engineering which may not be covered in other courses in the electrical and computer engineering curriculum.
EMGT 891 - Subject matter in emerging areas of engineering management and closely related areas not covered in other courses within the MEM curriculum. Topics, activities, and delivery methods vary.
ENGR 891 - Subject matter in emerging areas of engineering and closely related areas which are not covered in other courses in the College of Engineering graduate programs.  Topics, activities, and delivery methods vary.
BIOS 891 - Topics vary.
GEOG 891 - Topics vary.
SPAN 891 - Language, literature, and culture.
EDAD 891 - Culminating experience for students enrolled in the Student Affairs specialization. Integration of learning outcomes across students' coursework and application to their future careers.
CIVE 891 - Special topics in emerging areas of civil engineering which may not be covered in other courses in the civil engineering curriculum.
NRES 891A - Writing is the core of how we communicate our scientific findings; fostering good writing skills now will help you throughout your career regardless of if you remain in academia.  This class is suitable for all graduate students working on a proposal or a manuscript, or who want to focus on improving their academic reading and writing skills.
JOMC 892 - Topics vary every term.
ARCH 892 - Group investigation of a topic in architecture originated by the instructor.
DSGN 892 - Group investigation of a topic in design.
GERO 892 - Special studies designed around the interests and needs of the individual student in such areas as the psychology, sociology, economics, or politics of aging, as well as operation of various service systems. May be either a literature review project or a field project in which experience is gained in the community identifying and analyzing needs and services related to older people.
ENGL 892 - Topics vary.
PHYS 892 - Topics vary.
SOCI 892 - Topics vary.
EDPS 892 - Aspects of education not covered elsewhere in the curriculum.
CYAF 893 - Current issues that today's families experience. Topics vary and include, for example: Gender and family, low-income families, fathers and fatherhood, families with children who have disabilities.
POLS 893 - Meet regularly to discuss ongoing research projects in the department.
MATH 893 - Topics in one or more branches of mathematics.
ALEC 893 - Group study of technology in agricultural occupations. Workshops, special meetings, and assignments.
AGRO 894 - Design, develop and complete a project that requires synthesis of the course topics covered in the primary area of emphasis.
HORT 894 - Design, develop and complete a project that requires synthesis of the course topics covered in the primary area of emphasis.
MECH 894 - Faculty-supervised independent study.
SPED 894 - Individual or group projects that are extensions of course work, such as preparation of teaching materials, review of literature, observation/exploration of practices, design of curricular or clinical tools. Topic, scope and grading parameters are under guidance of a department faculty member, but topic can be student-initiated. These projects are generally relevant to the student's professional practice and advance the student's and possibly others' knowledge on a topic. Such projects may result in professional presentations.
MUSC 894 - Supervised practicum and/or field work in an area related to music under the direction of a university staff/faculty member and a cooperating professional in the particular area(s) of interest.
ANTH 894 - Structured professional experience in archaeological research, administration, or curation outside the traditional academic setting.
THEA 894 - Structured internships with professional organizations or individuals outside the University of Nebraska-Lincoln campus or with Nebraska Educational Telecommunications.
GERO 894 - Opportunity for students to share field experiences; to obtain guidance concerning various relationships with agency, staff, and clients; and to develop a broadly based perspective of the field of aging.
TEAC 894 - Guided observations and/or clinical experiences in schools and/or agencies offering programs for children/youth.
CRPL 894 - Professional project is a non-thesis culmination of the MCRP degree program. The professional project emulates professional planning practice and is pursued individually by the student with supervision by a faculty advisory committee.
CYAF 894J - Family and Consumer Sciences Education.
TEAC 894N - Guided observations and/or clinical experiences in schools and/or agencies offering programs for children/youth.
TEAC 894P - Guided observations and/or clinical experiences in schools and/or agencies offering programs for children/youth.
TEAC 894R - Guided observations and/or clinical experiences in schools and/or agencies offering programs for children/youth.
TEAC 894V - Guided observations and/or clinical experiences in schools and/or agencies offering programs for children/youth.
ENGR 895 - Apply theory learned in the classroom and experience hands-on applications through employment in industry. Gain practical application experience of engineering disciplines.
METR 895 - Application of meteorology-climatology learning with on-the-job training.
POLS 895 - Internship in government agencies, quasi public agencies, private firms (profit and nonprofit), and other organizations.
ENGL 895 - Each participant commits to developing an internship project, in which they will explore teaching writing with technology, editing, publishing, community engagement, and/or pedagogy.
HRHA 895 - A structured, experiential learning opportunity focused on human rights at a local, national or international organization with an emphasis on career development.
CRPL 895 - Supervised practical experience in a planning-related organization.
CYAF 896 - Individual projects in research, literature review, or creative production may or may not be an extension of course work.
ARTP 896 - Problems in technique and expression on a tutorial basis.
CERM 896 - Problems in technique and expression.
EDPS 896 - Complete education-based experiences in research or applied settings under faculty supervision.
ASCI 896 - Individual or group projects in research, literature review, or extension of course work under the supervision and evaluation of a departmental faculty member.
ALEC 896 - Projects to research, literature review, or extension of course work.
AGRI 896 - Individual or group projects in activities such as research, literature review, extension of course work, or preparation of teaching materials.
EAEP 896 - Entrepreneurship can be approached from many angles and with significant diversity in both value proposition, market reach and concept to customer process.  This offering provides the opportunity for students to investigate a particular topic or concept that is professionally relevant under the guidance of a faculty advisor(s) with appropriate expertise/skills/network.  Requires individual or team project work focused on investigation of a topic relevant to developing entrepreneurial capacity.
EDAD 896 - Selected topic with the direction and guidance of a staff member.
ENTO 896 - Individual or group projects in research, literature review, or extension of course work.
ETHN 896 - Individual or group study on a topic in Ethnic Studies under the supervision and evaluation of an Ethnic Studies faculty member.
FREN 896 - Special research project or reading program under the direction of a staff member in the department.
HORT 896 - Individual or group projects in research and literature review under supervision and evaluation of a departmental faculty member.
MUED 896 - Individual, scholarly study designed to enable a student to pursue a selected topic in music education with the direction and guidance of a faculty member.
SPAN 896 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty member.
TMFD 896 - Individual projects in research, literature review, or creative production.
WMNS 896 - Individual or group study on a topic in Women's and Gender Studies under supervision and evaluation of a Women's and Gender Studies faculty member.
ANTH 896 - Independent reading or research under direction by a faculty.
IDES 896 - Individual investigation of a topic in interior design.
ARCH 896 - Individual investigation of a topic in architecture.
GRPH 896 - Independent study course exploring subject matter in specialized areas of graphic design.
PHOT 896 - Problems in technique and expression. Independent study.
PRNT 896 - Independent study in printmaking.
SCLP 896 - Independent Study in Sculpture
BSEN 896 - Investigation and written report on engineering problems not covered in sufficient depth through existing courses. Topic varies by semester.
CRPL 896 - Individual or group investigations of problems relating to community and regional planning.
AECN 896 - Focused agricultural economics topics through research, narrowly targeted literature review, or extension of course work.
TMFD 896A - Individual projects in research, literature review, or creative production.
SPED 896D - The purpose of the DHH Directed Field Experience is to provide the pre-service TOD with opportunities to learn about the role and responsibilities of TODs. It will begin by engaging in a variety of field observations, followed by either a Tutoring or Group experience with children who are DHH.
TMFD 896D - Individual projects in research, literature review, or creative production.
SOCI 897 - Opportunity to apply concepts and methods in field setting and to obtain experience that will be valuable preparation for professional assignments in research, policy analysis, and administration.
WMNS 897 - Experiential and service learning designed to deepen understanding of classroom concepts related to study of women and gender in society.
AGEN 897 - Conception, design, development, and completion of a project that requires data collection, synthesis, analysis of results, and the development of a final written report that will be defended in the final oral examination.
AGRI 897 - Design, develop and complete a project that requires synthesis of the course topics covered in the primary area of emphasis.
AGRO 897 - Design, develop and complete a project that requires synthesis of the course topics covered in the primary area of emphasis.
ASCI 897 - Design, develop and complete a project that requires synthesis of the course topics covered in the primary area of emphasis.
HORT 897 - Design, develop and complete a project that requires synthesis of the course topics covered in the primary area of emphasis.
NRES 897 - Design, develop and complete a project that requires synthesis of the course topics covered in the primary area of emphasis.
FDST 897 - Applied food science and technology experience to design, develop and complete a project to apply knowledge gained from course work to create an original body of work focusing on an area of personal or professional interest.
ALEC 897 - Readings, in-depth discussions and analysis of current theory, issues and problems, research and practice in leadership education and/or communication. Offered to address emerging topics not covered in other courses.
SPED 897 - Laboratory and teaching experience in the area(s) of specialization.
TEAC 897A - Supervised teaching experience in schools.
CYAF 897D - Fieldwork in agencies serving children, youth, families and communities.
MUED 897D - Supervised teaching experiences in schools with accompanying seminar which focuses on: teacher certification, teacher and students rights and responsibilities, proper conduct of teachers, selected legal aspects of education, methods of communicating with parents and community members, and current issues which impact education.  <a href="/search/?P=MUED%20897" title="MUED&#160;897" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUED 897');">MUED&#160;897</a> does not apply towards the master of music degree.
TEAC 897E - Supervised teaching experience in schools.
CYAF 897J - Supervised teaching experience in schools.
TEAC 897N - Supervised teaching experience in schools.
TEAC 897P - Supervised teaching experience in schools.
TEAC 897R - Supervised teaching experience in schools.
MUED 897T - Supervised teaching experiences in schools with accompanying seminar which focuses on: teacher certification, teacher and students rights and responsibilities, proper conduct of teachers, selected legal aspects of education, methods of communicating with parents and community members, and current issues which impact education.  <a href="/search/?P=MUED%20897" title="MUED&#160;897" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'MUED 897');">MUED&#160;897</a> does not apply towards the master of music degree.
TEAC 897V - Supervised teaching experience in schools.
MUED 898 - Opportunities to design and implement a major research project with the direction and guidance of a faculty member.
GEOG 898 - Research experience.
SPED 898 - Individual or group project designed to help students develop understandings, skills, and outlooks that would allow them to conduct original, independent research in the future. Topic of research may be related to the instructors current research projects or area of study or a topic of interest to the student for pilot work; approval of the topic/project is at the discretion of the instructor.
CYAF 898 - Participation in an ongoing research project in child development studies and/or early childhood education, family science, marriage and family therapy, family and financial management, or family and consumer sciences education.
ECEN 898 - Research in a selected area of electrical engineering under the supervision and guidance of an Electrical and Computer Engineering faculty member.
ACTS 898 - Focused actuarial science, insurance, or risk management topics through research, narrowly targeted literature review, or extension of course work.
CNST 898 - Individual or small group investigation of topics in construction management.
CONE 898 - A signed student-instructor learning contract is required. Individual or small group investigation of special topics in construction engineering. Topic varies.
EDPS 898 - Seminar on current issues or topics in educational psychology. Topics vary.
CHEM 898A - Series of lectures and activities designed to prepare for graduate research and graduate studies in chemistry.
AGRI 899 - Thesis in support of candidate for a Master of Applied Science degree.
ACTS 899 - A thesis in the area of actuarial science, insurance, or risk management.
ARCH 899 - Projects to place special emphasis upon a major field of interest. Design problem or written thesis.
ECEN 899 - Masters thesis work.
POLS 899 - Masters thesis in political science
TMFD 899 - Individualized per Masters Thesis
ARTP 899 - Original work in studio, under direction.
CERM 899 - Original work in studio.
PHOT 899 - Thesis work in various photographic media and concepts.
GEOS 900 - Professional skills. Time management, laboratory and field safety, abstract writing, proposal writing, grantsmanship, and presentations. The philosophy and ethical conduct of science.
CRPL 900 - Current concepts, ideas, and issues relating to professional planning practice are studied. Contexts of planning practice, the professional planner's relationship to society, ethics in professional planning practice, and political and organizational behavior in plan making and policy implementation. Roles of citizens, client groups, and consultants in the planning process. Forms of collaborative problem solving, including mediation and negotiation. Planning office and project management issues and approaches, including personnel administration and project financing and budgeting.
EDAD 900 - Provides an opportunity for PhD students in Educational Leadership and Higher Education to gain a better understanding of the expectations and skills necessary for doctoral education. Students will gain knowledge of the skills and habits necessary to successfully navigate their doctoral program. In addition, the foundations of educational inquiry as well as personal development related to research will be addressed, including the development of critical reading and thinking skills, writing skills, and analytical skills.
CHME 900 - Discussion of research projects and review of current literature in chemical engineering.
EDPS 900D - Principles and applications of survey research. Use of appropriate sampling techniques and applications of survey methods to the study of relative incidence, distribution, and interrelations of educational, sociological, and psychological variables.
EDPS 900K - Uses of qualitative research methods in education. The theoretical premises of research using qualitative methods and the application of this information through critique and planning research. Qualitative methods for data collection.
SLPA 901 - Introductory normal anatomy and pathophysiology of the human adult auditory system and tools for its assessment and treatment. Normal anatomy and physiology contrasted with range of adult pathological conditions. Professional aspects related to adult clinical practice.
CYAF 901 - Facilitate professional development and career readiness of doctoral students
DRAW 901 - Graduate-level work in drawing, that can include the exploration of a variety of media and visual ideas.
JGRD 901 - Ethical framework for exploring current issues in mass communications.
EDAD 901 - Foundations of disciplined inquiry for continuous improvement, including application of systems and ecological analysis, data analysis for understanding problems of educational practice, theory of action development, change leadership, and measurement and evaluation of change efforts. Introduction to critical approaches to systems-level improvement. Applicable to P-20 leaders.
GRDC 901 - Major ethical issues in the conduct of research and teaching, Topics identified by the National Academy of Science as critical to responsible research: the acquisition and maintenance of research data, including issues of informed consent and rules about safety and animal use; responsible reporting of research, including authorship issues, duplicate and fragmented publication, and reporting in the public media; peer review, including issues of confidentiality and conflict of interest; and the ethical training and supervision of students, including the assignment of mentors, appropriate supervision and fair performance evaluation, and the avoidance of exploitation.
EMGT 901 - Statistical quality control and improvement is more than an engineering concern. Quality management is a major business strategy for increasing productivity and gaining competitive advantage in all industries and types of organizations. Covers differing perspectives and definitions of quality; tools and techniques for managing quality and continuous improvement; statistical methods; creation and interpretation of variable and attribute control charts; and Six Sigma tools for detection and isolation of sources of variation, process control, and capability analysis. The goal is to develop an operational use and familiarity with contemporary methods that are effective in managing quality, including Six Sigma.
DRAW 902 - Graduate-level work in drawing, that can include the exploration of a variety of media and visual ideas.
SOCI 902 - Advanced topics related to sampling error in surveys
ALEC 903 - Preparation of agriscience teachers to supervise and mentor student teachers, evaluate/coach performance, and instructional delivery.
MATH 905 - A first course in commutative algebra covering core topics in the field including noetherian rings, graded rings, localization, Nakayama's lemma, integral extensions, primary decomposition, Hilbert functions, and dimension theory.
EDAD 905 - Examination of how P-20 educational systems are structured, including critiques of those structures through new and emerging frameworks to understand why and how they work. Includes governance of educational institutions at the federal, state, and institutional level, and the impact of demographic, social, legal, political, and financial influences on governance.
EMGT 905 - Creating new and innovative business and corporate entrepreneurship requires a strategic vision to inform and align decision making at all organizational levels. Focuses on strategies that a firm could apply to design a structure for becoming a learning and ethical organization, to create value, and to develop and sustain competencies to gain competitive advantage in the market.
TMFD 905A - Advanced Problems: Textiles
AGRO 906 - Understanding and use of crop simulation models and ability to build crop models. Studying principles and quantitative descriptions of crop production ecology.  Offered fall semester of odd-numbered calendar years.
NRES 906 - Understanding and use of crop simulation models and ability to build crop models. Studying principles and quantitative descriptions of crop production ecology.  Offered fall semester of odd-numbered calendar years.
SLPA 907 - Normal and abnormal anatomy and pathophysiology of the human pediatric auditory system, developmental factors, and tools for pediatric auditory assessment and treatment. Professional aspects related to pediatric clinical practice.
EDPS 910 - Provides basic understanding of human behavior within social and cultural contexts. The knowledge of social psychology is applicable to various educational settings, including child-parent-teacher interaction, learning environment, and therapeutic interaction. Aims to help (1) understand classical and contemporary theories and research of social psychology and (2) cultivate ability to apply social psychological theories to educational research interests.
MECH 910 - The continuum. Geometrical foundations of continuum mechanics. Rectilinear and curvilinear frames. Elements of tensor analysis. Analysis of stress. Analysis of strain. Equations of motion. Constitutive equations. Fundamental laws. Applications to deformable systems.
PHYS 911 - Lagrangian and Hamiltonian formulations of the laws of motion; variational principles; dynamics of rigid bodies; other advanced topics.
ECEN 911 - Applications of probability and statistics to signals and noise; correlation; sampling; shot noise; spectral analysis; Gaussian processes; filtering.
SCLP 911 - Graduate-level work in various sculpture media and concepts.
MATH 911 - Basic topics of infinite and finite group theory from among geometric, combinatorial, and algorithmic group theory, homology of groups, solvable and nilpotent groups and representation theory.
ECON 911A - Advanced topics in aggregate dynamics and growth.
SCLP 912 - Graduate-level work in various sculpture media and concepts.
PHYS 912 - The laws of thermodynamics and thermodynamic functions; ensembles; Boltzmann, Fermi-Dirac, and Bose-Einstein statistics; kinetic theory and transport phenomena. Application to macroscopic systems.
ECON 912A - Survey of the theory of individual choice; demand, supply, production, price formation. Theory of market structure.
ARCH 913 - First semester of a year-long design-thesis project initiated in <a href="/search/?P=ARCH%20544" title="ARCH&#160;544" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'ARCH 544');">ARCH&#160;544</a> and developed in conjunction with a faculty mentor. Initial visual and written studies addressing current issues relevant to the discipline of architecture to be completed in the following semester.
PHYS 913 - Electrostatics, magnetostatics, and Maxwell's equations; solutions to boundary value problems and Green's functions; electromagnetic radiation.
ECON 917 - Matrix-based approach to the construction of statistical economic models, estimation of model parameters, and econometric inference. Multiple hypothesis tests, prediction, and general error structures.
PHYS 917 - Hilbert-space formulation of quantum mechanics; stationary and time-dependent perturbation theory; variational methods; spin; many-particle systems and identical particles.
MECH 918 - Derivation and implementation of the finite element method. Introduction to the theory of finite element methods for elliptic boundary-value problems. Applications to time-independent physical phenomena (e.g., deformation of elastic bodies, heat conduction, steady-state fluid flow, electrostatics, flow through porous media). Basic coding techniques. A basic understanding of ordinary differential equations and matrix algebra as well as some programming skills are assumed.
EDAD 920 - Understanding the individual and organizational issues of diversity and multiculturalism in P-20 schools. Increase the students' knowledge and appreciation of: cultural, social, political, and economic realities of our complex, pluralistic society in relation to our educational system. Through integration of relevant information from history, law, interpersonal development, organizational development, and philosophy, students will develop a complex, comprehensive understanding of diversity and equity.
NUTR 920 - Supervised classroom experiences designed to develop competencies in teaching at the college level.
GRPH 921 - Advanced graduate-level work in various graphic design media and concepts.
MATH 921 - Rigorous treatment of integration and measure theory. General measures and measurable functions. Lebesgue measure and Lebesgue integral. Approximation of functions. Lebesgue's Monotone and Dominated Convergence Theorems. Signed measures and total variation of measures. Radon-Nikodym Theorem. Lebesgue-Stieltjes measures and integrals. Product measures and Fubini's theorem.
GRPH 922 - Advanced graduate-level work in various graphic design media and concepts.
EDAD 923 - Designed particularly for those interested in upper secondary and college levels. Junior college movement; relationship of movement to provisions for an adequate educational program; functions of the junior college; legal status and basis for extension of junior college; problems of organization, administration, and curriculum.
CSCE 923 - Analysis of performance of algorithms on random access machines and Turing machines, data structures for design of efficient algorithms, sorting algorithms, divide and conquer strategies, algorithms on graphs and their performance bounds, pattern matching algorithms, achievable lower bounds on complexity, NP complete problems.
VBMS 925 - Analysis of current epidemiology and animal health literature. Critical evaluation of study design, methods of analysis, biases, field applicability, and basis for conclusions.
PSYC 925 - Introduction to ethical principles and reasoning for research, teaching and professional practice in psychology.
PSYC 925A - Application of ethical principles to practica and professional practice. Critique of the status of a professional mental health discipline, a discipline's ethical code, and practice in society.
MATH 926 - Geometry of Hilbert spaces, compact operators and applications, self-adjoint and normal bounded operators, unbounded operators, spectrum of an operator and its properties, continuous and Borel functional calculus, applications as time permits
PHYS 927 - Selected topics in solid-state physics with emphasis on experimentally observed phenomena, including the structure and thermal, electric, magnetic, and elastic properties of metals, semiconductors, and insulators.
AGRI 930 - Aims to equip with an in-depth knowledge of conservation agriculture systems. Builds on scientific knowledge about the ecological functioning of agricultural landscapes by addressing the parallel influences of social, economic, and civil structures on agricultural system functioning, food security, cultural sovereignty, and environmental health. Explores the historical foundations, motivations, advances, and outcomes in global and local agricultural systems across time. Topics will focus on discovering ways scientific knowledge is correlated with historical occurrences and modern social perceptions. Content is selected to assist in developing multifaceted connections and clarity between their scientific understanding, the organization of agricultural systems, and the historical events that have influenced the development of modern food systems. Emphasis will be placed on harnessing individuals experiences and building discipline-based knowledge to prepare informed and perceptive agriculture science professionals with skills needed to strategically tackle modern agricultural production issues.
NRES 930 - Aims to equip with an in-depth knowledge of conservation agriculture systems. Builds on scientific knowledge about the ecological functioning of agricultural landscapes by addressing the parallel influences of social, economic, and civil structures on agricultural system functioning, food security, cultural sovereignty, and environmental health. Explores the historical foundations, motivations, advances, and outcomes in global and local agricultural systems across time. Topics will focus on discovering ways scientific knowledge is correlated with historical occurrences and modern social perceptions. Content is selected to assist in developing multifaceted connections and clarity between their scientific understanding, the organization of agricultural systems, and the historical events that have influenced the development of modern food systems. Emphasis will be placed on harnessing individuals experiences and building discipline-based knowledge to prepare informed and perceptive agriculture science professionals with skills needed to strategically tackle modern agricultural production issues.
ADPR 930 - Capstone course in the Integrated Media Communications (IMC) specialization. Reflect on different theories and concepts and apply those theories and concepts to real-life examples and professional goals in a final paper and presentation to faculty and peers.
CERM 931 - Graduate-level individual work in ceramics.
CERM 932 - Graduate-level individual work in ceramics.
BIOC 932 - Protein structure and function.
BIOS 932 - Protein structure and function.
CHEM 932 - Protein structure and function.
BIOC 933 - Kinetics regulation and reaction mechanisms of enzymes.
BIOS 933 - Kinetics regulation and reaction mechanisms of enzymes.
CHEM 933 - Kinetics regulation and reaction mechanisms of enzymes.
ECEN 935 - Computational intelligence paradigms and their applications, including: artificial neural networks, fuzzy logic systems, swarm intelligence, evolutionary computation (e.g., genetic algorithms), machine learning (e.g., supervised learning, unsupervised learning, and reinforcement learning), neurocontrol and adaptive critic designs, and applications of computational intelligence for system identification, state estimation, time series prediction, signal processing, adaptive control, optimization, diagnostics, prognostics, etc.
BIOC 935 - Current metabolic research at the bioenergetic, metabolomic, and molecular level. The normal metabolic processes that go awry in cancer, obesity, and oxidative stress.
BIOS 935 - Current metabolic research at the bioenergetic, metabolomic, and molecular level. The normal metabolic processes that go awry in cancer, obesity, and oxidative stress.
CHEM 935 - Current metabolic research at the bioenergetic, metabolomic, and molecular level. The normal metabolic processes that go awry in cancer, obesity, and oxidative stress.
EDPS 935 - Seminar intended for doctoral-level students who have completed an initial qualitative research methodology course and who want to increase their skills in qualitative research. Data collection and analysis strategies and the application of those strategies to research problems.
EDAD 935 - Workforce, economic and community development role of education within the broader context of recent economic, social, and technological changes in communities, society, and the economy. Focuses on partnerships and policies as a lever for systems-level improvement in community level outcomes. Applicable to P-20 leaders.
EDPS 936 - <a href="/search/?P=EDPS%20936" title="EDPS&#160;936" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'EDPS 936');">EDPS&#160;936</a> is for students already familiar with quantitative and qualitative research. An introduction to mixed methods research as a distinct methodology in social science research Topics include the value and use of this approach, philosophical assumptions, various types of design, and approaches to designing and conducting mixed methods research.
MRKT 940 - Decision-making activities in problems concerned with the development and management of marketing programs. Strategy choices in situations involving product development, market analysis and segmentation, channels, merchandising, promotion, pricing, and marketing research.
MATH 941 - Theory of distributions, Fourier transform, fundamental solutions, Sobolev space theory, weak formulation and solution of elliptic boundary value problems, elliptic regularity, Galerkin methods and other techniques of nonlinear analysis.
MUSC 941 - Current materials and approaches for the teaching of music fundamentals, harmony counterpoint, ear training, sight singing, form and analysis. Activities.
EDPS 942 - Various correlational-based statistical procedures presented, including linear and nonlinear regression, multiple regression, statistical control, analysis of interactions, the general linear model, factor analysis, and discriminant analysis.
METR 943 - Advanced concepts related to severe convective storms. Tornado-genesis, super-cell formation, rotation, movement, morphology, quasi-linear convective systems, deep convective initiation, hail, mesoscale convective systems, and RKW (Rotunno-Klemp-Weisman) theory.
ANTH 946 - Methods, theories, and practices of digital humanities scholarship.
ENGL 946 - Methods, theories, and practices of digital humanities scholarship.
HIST 946 - Methods, theories, and practices of digital humanities scholarship.
MODL 946 - Methods, theories, and practices of digital humanities scholarship.
TEAC 948 - Changing roles for persons engaged in instructional and curricular leadership in educational institutions. Literature on staff development, assessment and evaluation, and effective schools serve as the basis for studying and applying this information to a variety of educational settings. Issues such as teacher empowerment and site-based management, along with cooperative learning provide the focus of the activities.
PSYC 949 - Applications of structural equation models to longitudinal designs for analyzing repeated measures data. Topics will include evaluation of measurement invariance, panel models, latent growth curve models, and other extensions of structural equation models for longitudinal data.
GERM 950 - Readings and discussion of German literature and media from across periods and genres.
EDPS 950 - Formal evaluative methods for the investigation of children's learning difficulties, including supervised practicum in administration, scoring, and interpretation of individually administered tests of cognitive abilities.
HIST 950 - Leads students through intensive primary source research and writing project on historical topic of student's choice. Letter grade only.
FDST 951 - Advanced study and discussion of the scientific literature and research pertaining to food science.
PANT 951 - Graduate-level work in various painting media and concepts.
PANT 952 - Graduate-level work in various painting media and concepts.
CYAF 952 - Psychological, behavioral and emotional disorders identified in the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual and various interpersonal dysfunctions. Interpersonal antecedents and consequences of these disorders. Integration of individual and family diagnosis. Research supporting treatment from a family systems approach.
GERM 952 - Tendencies of German literature during the last 50 years.
ENGL 953 - The course has three elements: workshop, seminar, and discussion of the teaching of creative writing.
CSCE 953 - State-of-the-art optical communication networks, encompassing traditional networks operating on optical fiber and next-generation networks such as wavelength division multiplexed (WDM) and optical time division multiplexed (OTDM) networks. Fundamentals of optical network design, control, and management. Optical network design and modeling, routing and wavelength assignment algorithms, optical network simulation tools and techniques.
PSYC 955 - Introduction to the theory and application of assessment procedures and techniques. Measurement and interpretive issues in clinical assessment. Laboratory introduction to structured techniques emphasizing intellectual assessment.
PSYC 956 - Didactic and laboratory training in the administration, scoring, and beginning interpretation of projective and objective assessment techniques.
NUTR 956 - An overview of community and public health nutrition, exploration of community nutrition programs and nutrition services, and application of nutrition education concepts for community settings.
EDPS 958A - Full-time supervised practice of school psychology in the facilities of public or private schools of educational service agencies.
TEAC 959 - Portfolio components represent a significant contribution to the solution of an instructional problem and reflect broadly the major competencies of instructional technology: problem definition, learner analysis, media selection and message design, production, and evaluation.
EDPS 959 - Full-time or half-time supervised practice of psychology and related research in schools and supportive mental health and health agencies with emphasis on assessment, diagnosis, and treatment of mental, emotional, and behavioral disorders.
SPED 960 - Principles and practices for effective partnerships among schools, families, and the community. Cultural reciprocity and family systems theory are emphasized. Spend time with a family with a child with special needs, in order to gain firsthand knowledge of the family experience. Reflect upon these experiences in relationship to readings and discussions.
ECEN 960 - Gallium arsenide and silicon devices. Device properties based on structure and physical properties of the materials.
PHOT 961 - Graduate-level work in various photographic media and concepts.
MATL 962 - Fundamental properties of defects in solids. Energy considerations for point, line, and plane defects. Equilibrium and nonequilibrium concentrations of defects and annealing theory. Mutual interactions of defects and formation of secondary defects. Interaction of defects with other perturbations of the crystal lattices.
PHOT 962 - Graduate-level work in various photographic media and concepts.
EDPS 964 - Overview of theoretical approaches to counseling. Close examination of selected theories and intervention procedures.
EDPS 967 - Psychology of Motivation focuses on understanding and impacting students' motivation to learn. Theories discussed in this class are applicable to a wide array of achievement settings (e.g., math, science, writing, health education) as well as more general motivational concerns (e.g., studying, addiction, video games). Content covered includes drive theory, behaviorism as motivation, achievement motivation, goal theory, self-determination theory, social cognitive theory, and ecological theories of motivation.
MECH 970 - Theory, practice and technology of advanced manufacturing processes, with emphasis on process mechanism, surface integrity, tool and machine design, adaptive control and expert systems.
ECON 971 - Public sector core concepts and empirical methods focused on government revenues, taxation, and fiscal incidence. The role of government in the economy and foundations of public economics. Taxation of commodities, income, and consumption.  Efficiency and equity objectives, along with policy considerations.
PSYC 971 - Reading assignments in special fields; library reading, conferences.
CYAF 973 - Synthesis of current and historical perspectives in theory and research on children's social development including multiple contexts for socialization/individuation.
PSYC 974 - Teaching methods, philosophical perspectives to teaching, practical ideas about classroom instruction, and career issues in higher education.
EDPS 975 - Evaluation and uses of occupational and educational information; job analysis; psychological and behavioral attributes relating to work and life-styles; occupational taxonomies; career-development theories; impact of accelerating changes on personal and social planning; investigations of value-oriented expectations as sources of work satisfaction and dissatisfaction; critical assessment of the concept of vocational choice. For counselors and educators.
MUSC 977 - Problems of interpretation and execution in music literature with emphasis on examination of literary and musical sources bearing on performance.
PSYC 981 - Practical and didactic training in assessment and intervention for psychological and behavioral disorders. Emphasis on entry-level clinical skills including establishment of the therapeutic relationship, case conceptualization, and development of treatment plans within the scientist-practitioner model.
EDPS 981 - Supervised practice in local school districts related to academic, social, behavioral and emotional disorders of children and adolescents.
EDAD 982 - Concepts, principles, and methods in advanced statistical analyses for educational administration research, with a focus throughout on applied data analysis. The frame of reference for this course is correlational and multivariate research designs. A variety of analytical approaches, in particular multiple regression, logistic and multinomial regression, factor analysis, and an introduction to concepts of multilevel models and structural equation modeling, among other possible topics.
EDPS 982 - Supervised clinical practice related to academic, social, behavioral and emotional disorders of children and adolescents. Parent and family treatment and behavior interventions emphasized.
EDAD 983 - An overview of concepts and approaches to qualitative methodology in educational administration research including major methodological approaches (e.g. case study, ethnography, phenomenology, grounded theory, and narrative inquiry). Overview of approaches to qualitative research design, fieldwork, data collection, and data analysis.
HIST 983 - Engages with recent and classic scholarship on race, ethnicity, and identity, primarily in American history.  Covers new comparative and transnational scholarship. May emphasize different themes and readings depending on area of expertise of faculty. Letter grade only.
MNGT 983 - Capstone seminar in the organizational behavior track. Reflection, perspective and the future of topics in the field of organizational behavior including research methodology, social learning theory/organizational behavior models, managerial activities/behaviors, cross-cultural/international research, and leadership.
EDPS 984 - Ethical principles in the practice of counseling. Application of ethical guidelines and development of ethical decision-making models relevant to school and mental health contents.
EDAD 984B - Provides an introduction to case study methodology, with a focus on qualitative data collection and analysis. Focus on two traditions of case study methodology used in educational research (Yin and Stake). Learn about case study design from start to finish and conduct and write a small scale case study using either own data or data provided by the instructor.
EDAD 984N - An advanced qualitative methods course providing an introduction to narrative inquiry methodology in educational administration research. Provides an overview of theoretical and philosophical groundings, genres, research design, data collection methods, analysis, and interpretation in narrative inquiry methodology.
AGRO 985 - Understand carbon and nitrogen cycling in the soil ecosystem including feedbacks and implications for soil management, environment, and climate.
NRES 985 - Understand carbon and nitrogen cycling in the soil ecosystem including feedbacks and implications for soil management, environment, and climate.
SOIL 985 - Understand carbon and nitrogen cycling in the soil ecosystem including feedbacks and implications for soil management, environment, and climate.
MUSC 986 - Interpretative and historical studies in music; intensive study of special topics in the history and literature of music.
MUED 987 - Intensive study of topics in music education.
EDAD 987C - Opportunity for educational administrators to gain an understanding of administering changes or innovations, and to obtain supervised field experience. Consideration will be given antecedents of change, change models, the role of government, forces that restrict or stimulate change, tools to implement change, and evaluation.
EDPS 989 - Study of the research literature on cognitive and motivational processes involved in reading and writing. Readings and classroom discussion will focus on theories and models of reading and writing. Specific topics include the roles of component processes of literacy such as attention, perception, memory, and problem solving, as well as studies of self-regulatory and social influences on literacy development and performance. Literacy research and models are examined at all levels of reading and writing, from early acquisition through high-level reading and writing expertise, as well as with respect to changes in literacy activities tied to new technologies.
CRPL 990 - Application and synthesis of multi-disciplinary philosophies, theories, methods, analyses, and techniques of planning in the context of contemporary complex planning projects. Individual and team approaches pursued in specific project contexts for survey research, definition of research questions and hypotheses, analyses, creative problem solving, formulation and evaluation of alternatives, plan making, and development of implementation strategies.
CSCE 990 - Frontiers of an area of computer science.
CHEM 990 - <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20990" title="CHEM&#160;990" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 990');">CHEM&#160;990</a> consists of monthly lectures presented by guest speakers from other colleges and universities, the government, and industry. Registration in <a href="/search/?P=CHEM%20990" title="CHEM&#160;990" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'CHEM 990');">CHEM&#160;990</a> is required of all full-time CHEM graduate students. Current topics of chemical interest.
SPED 990 - An in-depth study of professionally-relevant topic(s).
CIVE 990R - Frontiers of an area of structural engineering.
CIVE 990T - Frontiers of an area of transportation engineering.
CIVE 991 - Advanced special topics in emerging areas of civil and environmental engineering which may not be covered in other courses in the civil engineering curriculum.
ACCT 991 - Capital market effects of accounting measurements and presentation, foundation of capital market research in accounting, methodology in conducting capital market research, and implication of capital market effects on accounting policy.
CRPL 991 - Focuses upon the application of planning principles, planning theory, planning process, and planning techniques, to regions, communities, and urban-scale problems in real-world settings.  Opportunities to apply the knowledge and techniques learned in other Community and Regional Planning courses. Develops additional skills and experience in research, analysis, problem-solving, planning, teamwork, and presentation.
CSCE 991 - Plan and execute a component(s) of a research project, such as a literature review, system development, exploratory experimentation, or proposal development, under supervision of a graduate faculty advisor, as an initial step for doctoral dissertation research.  Write a formal report on the research project and its intellectual merit and potential impact.  Successfully complete the doctoral program qualifying examination.
EDAD 991 - Identification and solutions of problems associated with program planning; organizational, administrative, and instructional procedures within an institutional setting. Designing, implementing, and evaluating new or modified patterns of operation and teaching within a public school, postsecondary institution, or adult education agency.
AGRO 991 - Various topics in horticulture, agronomy or related subjects. Emphasis on techniques.
HORT 991 - Various topics in horticulture, agronomy or related subjects. Emphasis on techniques.
ECEN 991 - Selected topic under the direction and guidance of a faculty member.
JGRD 992 - Development of thesis topic may come from <a href="/search/?P=JGRD%20992" title="JGRD&#160;992" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'JGRD 992');">JGRD&#160;992</a>. <a href="/search/?P=JGRD%20992" title="JGRD&#160;992" class="bubblelink code" onclick="return showCourse(this, 'JGRD 992');">JGRD&#160;992</a> is designed for increasing competency in professional practice and depending on goals, may be concentrated in ADVT, BRDC, or NEWS. Translation of social, political, and economic affairs to mass audiences in both print and electronic media.
BIOC 992K - Presentations of current and original Biochemistry research.
CNST 993 - Seminar participation to broaden knowledge of construction engineering and management topics, improve presentation and professional skills, and learn about professional development resources available on campus.
HIST 993 - Internship at the University of Nebraska Press.
MATH 993 - Advanced topics in one or more branches of mathematics.
PSYC 993 - Major issues involved in the evaluation of programs which deliver human services. Includes needs assessments, outcome evaluation techniques, qualitative methods, goal attainment scaling, multi-attribute utility theory, role relationships and political problems with which evaluators must contend.
MATH 994 - Independent reading or research directed by a faculty member.
NUTR 995 - Intended primarily for doctoral students, although non-doctoral students are admitted with permission. Work with a faculty mentor, either on an individualized or on a small group basis. Outcome-based scholarly activities. The interaction between research and practice.
ALEC 995 - Outcome-based scholarly activity approved in consultation with doctoral advisor. While working on either an individualized or small group basis, develop, execute, and report one or more projects addressing the interaction between research and practice in the field of leadership.
CYAF 995 - Develop, execute and report on one or more projects on an individual or small group basis. Immersion in outcome-based scholarly activities with a faculty mentor. The interaction between research and practice.
EDAD 995 - Students are immersed in outcome-based scholarly activities with a faculty mentor. Working on either an individualized or small group basis, students develop, execute and report one or more projects addressing the interaction between research and practice. Intended primarily for doctoral students, although non-doctoral graduate students may be admitted with special permission of the instructor.
EDPS 995 - Working on either an individualized or small group basis, students develop, execute and report one or more projects addressing the interaction between research and practice.
TEAC 995 - Outcome-based scholarly activities, individualized or small group basis. Development, execution and reporting on one or more projects addressing the interaction between research and practice.
HIST 995 - Allows graduate students to volunteer or intern at a museum, archive, historical society, or other history-related organization. Pass/No Pass only.
TEAC 995A - Outcome-based scholarly activities, individualized or small group basis.  Development, execution and reporting on one or more projects addressing the interaction between research and practice.
MECH 996 - Semester projects involving research into a specific problem in any major area of mechanical engineering.
PHOT 996 - Problems in technique and expression. Advanced laboratory experience. Independent study.
ECEN 996 - Independent study in electrical engineering.
TEAC 996 - Individual research under faculty supervision.
CERM 996 - Problems in technique and expression. Advanced laboratory experience.
PRNT 996 - Independent study in Printmaking.
FREN 996 - Individual research on a literary or linguistic problem involving original investigation in areas not covered by seminars or thesis.
ANTH 996 - Research or reading in selected problems in anthropology, including the preparation of research for publication.
CSCE 996 - Investigation of minor research problems to introduce graduate students to the methods of research in computer science by assigning a problem which is of research interest but within the capacity of a graduate student to complete within a semester.
PHYS 996 - Research leading to PhD
CYAF 996 - Investigation related to family and consumer sciences.
MUSC 996 - Individual research projects in musicology, music theory, or music education.
EDPS 996A - Independent operational research under faculty supervision.
EDPS 996B - Readings on selected problems in educational psychology.
PSYC 997 - Individually supervised evaluative and diagnostic work with clinic subjects. Emphasis on the refinement of skills in evaluating and diagnosing behavior deviations.
FREN 997 - Topic varies.
TMFD 997 - Supervised independent professional experience under direction of a practicing professional within the textile and apparel industry, government agencies, museums and/or businesses.
AREN 997 - Supervised non-thesis research and independent study.
MATL 997 - Supervised non-thesis research and independent study.
EDPS 997B - Supervised field experiences in school counseling, college student personnel, and community social service agencies.
EDPS 997E - Didactic preparation to engage in psychological consultation and clinical supervision of mental health counseling trainees in the following semester and future professional experiences. Objectives are outlined in the syllabus.
EDPS 997G - Supervised counseling experience in university, schools, and community agencies.
EDPS 997K - Supervised experience in supervising graduate students in practicum settings. Refinement of consultation, assessment, diagnosis, and treatment skills.
MATL 998 - Course offered as the need arises to teach advanced topics in materials characterization, processing, synthesis or properties not covered in other 900-level courses.
POLS 998 - Independent research with a faculty member.
ECEN 998 - Supervised non-thesis research.
SPED 998 - Individual or group project designed to help students develop understandings, skills, and outlooks that would allow them to conduct original, independent research in the future. Topic of research may be related to the instructor's current research projects or area of study or a topic of interest to the student for pilot work; approval of the topic/project is at the discretion of the instructor.
BIOS 998 - Reviews of specialized subject areas. Subject dependent on student demand and availability of staff.
PHYS 998 - Offered as the need arises to treat special topics not covered in other 900-level courses.
ENGR 999 - Doctoral Dissertation
SCMA 999 - Research credits required for a doctoral dissertation for completion of degree.
ACCT 999 - Dissertation research course
ECEN 999 - Dissertation research.
EDAD 999 - Doctoral dissertation
EDPS 999 - Doctoral Dissertation
TMFD 999 - Individualized per Doctoral Dissertation.
